%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/12/19/a-black-swan-song/}{A Black Swan Song}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{A Black Swan Song}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 19 Dec 2010 05:15:26}
\vspace{6pt}

%\includegraphics{1130837845_2qYno-M-1.jpg}
\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.23\textwidth}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{1130837845_2qYno-M-1.jpg}
\label{fig:985X0}
\end{floatingfigure}There's a lot to like in
\href{http://www.foxsearchlight.com/blackswan/}{The Black Swan}. To
begin, you simply cannot beat the soundtrack!
\href{http://www.classical.net/music/comp.lst/tchaikovsky.php}{Tchaikovsky}
delivers a bit stream worthy of high quality digital cinema sound
systems. \href{http://www.natalieportman.com/}{Natalie Portman} gives
the best performance of her career --- now I see what the
\href{http://www.starwars.com/databank/character/anakinskywalker/}{young
Darth Vader} and that
\href{http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/v\_for\_vendetta/}{creepy V guy}
saw in her! And, to cap it off, The Black Swan elegantly solves the
``ballet guy problem.'' Real guys don't do, watch, or appreciate ballet
but throw in some hot lesbian ballerina on ballerina action and suddenly
you're up for a skinny dip in
\href{http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3bYTomI-Uiw}{Swan Lake} just to
cool down.

I was expecting a
\href{http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=euroweenie}{euroweenie}
art film but the Swan exceeded my expectations by being --- what's that
word --- \emph{entertaining}. I particularly enjoyed being fooled until
last scene. There is nothing I hate more than figuring out what's going
on in a movie. I demand that lovely confused state of mind before all is
revealed. And for the denouement, I expect coherence and logic. I was
not disappointed. The Black Swan is a film ballet,
\href{http://auto-racing.speedtv.com/article/alms-black-swan-confirms-porsche-gt-entry/}{NASCAR}
and psych patients can all enjoy for roughly the same reasons:
enthusiastically endorsed.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{1130837845_2qYno-M-1.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:985X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}