%\input{bmamblenew.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/05/22/a-note-regarding-the-contents-of-the-total-library/}{A Note Regarding the Contents of the Total Library}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{A Note Regarding the Contents of the Total Library}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 22 May 2024 21:30:38}
\vspace{6pt}

In Jorge Luis Borges's 1939 essay \emph{The Total Library,} we catch our
first glimpse of the \href{https://libraryofbabel.info/}{\emph{Library
of Babel}}. Borges, like many writers and artists, kept revisiting
favorite themes. \emph{The Total Library} of 1939 is best considered a
\emph{Library of Babel} construction site. The foundation crews are busy
excavating whatever esoteric material will support the library, and the
future librarians are engaged in collecting and indexing the books that
will fill the seemingly endless shelves of the \emph{Library of Babel}.

In this same 1939 essay, Borges mentions that you will find valid proofs
of Fermat's Last Theorem in the vast combinatoric universe of the
\emph{Total Library}. In 1939, Fermat's Last Theorem was a conjecture.
Andrew Wiles found the first proof in 1995. Borges got lucky. Fermat's
Last Theorem turned out to be a \emph{theorem}. And yes, Wiles' 1995
proof and gazillions of alternate proofs are indeed somewhere in the
\emph{Total Library}. What would have happened if Fermat's Last Theorem
was invalid? For example, Thomas Hobbes and John Wallis engaged in a
multi-decade 17th-century feud over squaring the circle. Squaring the
circle is an ancient problem in Euclidean Geometry. The problem is
simple to state. Construct a square with exactly the same area as a
given circle using only the classic tools of an unmarked straightedge
and compass. In perhaps the most erudite and steadfast display of cranky
hubris in history, Hobbes put out one invalid circle squaring proof
after another that Wallis gleefully eviscerated in that delightful
17th-century warring pamphlet style. Circle squaring is impossible. When
Hobbes and Wallis were squabbling, the problem was still open; it wasn't
shown to be impossible until the 19\textsuperscript{th} century, long
after both men had died.

However, the question remains: Will Hobbesian-style circle quadrature
proofs exist in the \emph{Total Library}?

We will find many invalid Hobbesian quadrature proofs. We will also find
all of Wallis's commentaries that point out exactly where Hobbes screwed
the geometric pooch in each one. We will also find every other
crank-created circle quadrature and innumerable refutations thereof.
Broadening our search, we will find this humble blog post. And you, dear
reader, if you kindly comment, your comment will be in the \emph{Total
Library,} too. But, in the vast universe of \emph{Total Library}
gibberish, we won't find a single valid circle-squaring proof.
\emph{Mathematical impossibility is absolute. It even rules in imaginary
realms.} So, the \emph{Total Library} is not quite total; it cannot
contain what does not exist.


\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{SCfigure}
\centering
\href{https://onehundredpages.wordpress.com/2017/03/23/what-does-jorge-luis-borges-library-of-babel-look-like-an-accurate-illustration-created-with-3d-modeling-software/}{\includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{library_of_babel.jpg}}
\caption{See \href{https://onehundredpages.wordpress.com/}{A USEFUL
FICTION} for more information about the
\href{https://onehundredpages.wordpress.com/2017/03/23/what-does-jorge-luis-borges-library-of-babel-look-like-an-accurate-illustration-created-with-3d-modeling-software/}{Library
of Babel floor plan.} Also, check out the delightful site
\href{https://libraryofbabel.info/}{libraryofbabel.info} if you want to
browse in the Library of Babel.}
\label{fig:8162X0}
\end{SCfigure}


%\end{document}
 
