%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/07/02/a-peculiar-book-club/}{A Peculiar Book Club}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{A Peculiar Book Club}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 02 Jul 2011 20:23:48}
\vspace{6pt}

While holed up in a rehabilitation hospital recovering from a nasty fall
a coworker invited me to a noon-hour Bible study group. The group
conveniently met in my rehab hospital so I rolled upstairs in my
wheelchair and started attending their meetings. When I told my wife
about this peculiar book club she thought I was suffering from post
traumatic shock or had lost my mind. It's not that dramatic! I'm a
\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/29/hard-ass-skeptic-rules/}{hard-ass
skeptic} but I enjoy reading religious and mythical texts. I've plowed
though vast swaths of the Bible, the Koran, the Bhagavad Gita, the
Iliad, Beowulf, the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Egyptian Book of the Dead.
I, like many atheists and agnostics, know far
\href{http://articles.latimes.com/2010/sep/28/nation/la-na-religion-survey-20100928}{more
about these works than believers might expect} and consider them jewels
of world literature. The Bible, the Koran and the Bhagavad Gita are
still taken seriously while the greek gods of the Iliad and deities like
Osiris in the Book of the Dead are no longer worshiped!
\href{http://www.emersoncentral.com/poems/index.htm}{Emerson} said it
best, \emph{``The religion of one age is the literary entertainment of
the next.''} Once you accept the view that the Bible is literature you
can relax and enjoy the fabulous tales it spins. If, on the other hand,
you believe you are reading ``inerrant scripture'' then you're in for a
world of logical hurt!


%{[}caption id=``'' align=``alignleft'' width=``288'' caption=``Jesus  makes wine - click for  consequences''{]}
%\href{http://www.smbc-comics.com/index.php?db=comics\&id=1871\#comic}{\includegraphics{i-KnxKHwz-L.png}}
%{[}/caption{]}
\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\href{http://www.smbc-comics.com/index.php?db=comics\&id=1871\#comic}{\includegraphics[width=0.50\textwidth]{i-KnxKHwz-L.png}}
\caption{Jesus  makes wine - click for  consequences}
\label{fig:1405X0}
\end{figure}


When I was younger I argued with believers, mostly Mormons in Utah and
Muslims in southern Iran and northern Ghana, that only allegorical
interpretations of the Bible or Koran made sense. A literal view forces
you into never-ending and
\href{http://christiananswers.net/q-aig/aig-c005.html}{embarrassing
conflict with science} and violent clashes with other believers. You
would think after millennia of religious warfare we would catch on. You
cannot simultaneously be a good Hindu and Christian. Something has to
give; \emph{they both cannot be true but they both can be false!}
Believers are aware of these problems but most pull back from logically
analyzing their positions. They instinctively know where analysis leads:
myth will not hold. In the long run Allah and Jehovah will share
Osiris's and Apollo's fate.

This is not a view I will be advocating in my peculiar book club. I am
content to let others enjoy their beliefs as long as they have no
material impact on me! Atheists that constantly scream about ``under
god'' in the pledge of allegiance or ``in god we trust'' on the dollar
annoy me! Hypothetical entities are far less tiresome than
\href{http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9gRLR3W8Ons}{shrieking banshees}.
If the term ``God'' irritates you substitute ``Santa Claus.'' As for
militant believers of all creeds: we have a problem! The separation of
church and state is one of the deepest and greatest things about the
United States. It protects all of us from our mutual idiocies. I have no
problems with people erecting,
\emph{\href{http://www.secularnewsdaily.com/2010/11/10/obama-administration-taxpayers-lack-standing-in-tax-subsidized-religion-cases/}{on
their own dime}}, plaques emblazoned with the Ten Commandments but it
annoys me that religious institutions enjoy special tax status. Go to
your mosques, churches and temples but pay your damn taxes!

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{i-KnxKHwz-L.png}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:1405X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}