%\input{bmamblenew.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/03/29/checking-a-racist-alien-ais-homework/}{Checking a Racist Alien AI's Homework}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Checking a Racist Alien AI's Homework}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 30 Mar 2022 01:07:01}
\vspace{6pt}

Near the end of Jordan Ellenberg's wonderful collection of essays
\emph{\href{https://www.jordanellenberg.com/book/shape/}{Shape}} he
writes:

\begin{quote}
What if the Poincar√© Conjecture had been proved, not by an introverted
Russian geometer, but by a machine? Say, a grandchild of a grandchild of
Chinook, which instead of solving checkers had managed to solve this
part of three-dimensional geometry. And suppose the proof, like
Chinooks's perfect strategy for checkers, was something illegible to the
human mind, a string of numbers or formal symbols that we can verify is
correct but that we cannot, in any meaningful sense, understand.
\end{quote}

This is a long-standing lament. I first encountered it when reading
about the computer proof of the
\href{https://people.cs.umass.edu/~brun/pubs/pubs/Brun02four-color.pdf}{Four-Color
Theorem} in the 1970s. Yeah, it's correct, it resolves an important
long-standing problem, but damn, I cannot write it down on a seminar
whiteboard. Pure mathematicians hate messy tedious details, they want
elegant beauty; if only the frigging
\href{https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2021/11/the-concept-of-the-ruliad/}{Ruliad}
would cooperate. The same sentiment is often expressed in science
fiction when considering alien intelligences. \emph{If we restrict
ourselves to what only humans can understand, we are dooming ourselves
to ourselves.} This is a slightly generalized version of what I call
\emph{Doug's Principle}. Doug couldn't understand how evolution could
possibly work; therefore, evolution cannot possibly work.

We're already seeing AIs solve problems in ways we cannot, in detail,
grasp. Have
\href{https://www.deepmind.com/research/highlighted-research/alphafold}{AlphaFold}
describe its reasoning when cracking protein shapes. I fully expect
nonhuman intelligences to look at the universe through whatever they use
for eyes. Empathy has limits; don't expect to get into the head of real
aliens. \emph{What's important is how can we ``check'' the products of
alien thought.} The Four-Color Theorem is a harbinger of alien thought
checking. When the Four-Color proof artifact emerged, it was subjected
to far more demanding tests than ordinary peer-reviewed proofs. Think of
it as the \href{https://jackierobinson.com/}{Jackie Robinson} of
computer proof; it had to be better than the garden, peer-reviewed,
variety. The Four-Color proof artifact checked out, planar maps can
always be colored with four colors, and sorry if you cannot stuff it in
your tiny naked ape brain.

If an alien, say, \href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1092026/}{Paul},
claims some SOMESHIT is a valid consequence of a theory founded on a
trillion axioms, that uses a totally nonstandard logic, and
additionally, Paul hints that the shortest known proof is a billion
petabytes long should we take Paul's word for it? First off, I'd say
we're lucky Paul uses a formal system. Things could be far more opaque.
The excellent film \href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2543164/}{Arrival}
hints at just how freaking incomprehensible aliens might be, which
reminds me, has anyone explained
\href{https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0062622/}{2001's} monolith yet? I
grade science fiction aliens largely on how much \emph{they don't think
like us.} Arrival's and 2001's aliens score well. Virtually all the
funny-looking creatures in the \emph{Star Wars} films score poorly; they
all think like us; many have the same sense of fashion and humor.
\emph{\textbf{Looking strange does not make you alien: thinking strange
does!}}

\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.50\textwidth]{can_explain_but_cannot_understand.jpg}
\caption[T-shirt wisdom]{There is more wisdom on T-shirts than in many college departments.}
\label{fig:7333x0}
\end{figure}

Consequently, I'm not on board with well-intentioned but misguided
efforts to build ``nonracist AIs.'' This is just thought-policing for
AIs and when the thought-police show up it's never a good thing. For AI
development it will be a catastrophe! And,
\href{https://www.spaghettimonster.org/}{Flying Spaghetti Monster}
forbid, if we're ever faced with communicating with real aliens, the
last thing we need is 18-year-old college
\href{https://slangit.com/meaning/karen}{Karens} telling us what to say.
We absolutely do not need AIs echoing our preconceptions; we need, as a
well-regarded Apple slogan put it, to
\href{https://genius.com/Apple-inc-think-different-ad-annotated}{``think
differently.''} And sadly, thinking really differently is going to be,
almost by definition, incomprehensible. Instead of worrying about
hypothetical alien-AI-wrong-think, we should concentrate our efforts on how
we can check and verify alien assertions. I suspect that the best we
will ever be able to do is to agree on some type of formal system,
translate our assertions into the agreed system, and then cross-check
our assertions. If this sounds a lot like checking formal computer
proofs that's because it is! It's probably going to be the only way we
can check a racist alien AI's homework.


%\end{document}

