%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/11/cosmos-reboot/}{Cosmos Reboot}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Cosmos Reboot}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 12 Apr 2014 00:34:50}
\vspace{6pt}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://www.cosmosontv.com/}{\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{cosmos_spacetime_odyssey_titlecard.jpg}}
\label{fig:4624X0}
\end{floatingfigure}I am enjoying~Neil deGrasse Tyson's reboot of Cosmos. So far it's as good
as the early 1980s Sagan original. Popularizing science is a thankless
task. Successful stars like Tyson and Sagan will earn nothing but envy
and scorn from their peers. They'll be derided as dilettantes and
panderers~whoring out science for demeaning public fame and filthy
capitalist lucre. ~``Academic politics is the most vicious and bitter
form of politics, because the stakes are so low.'' Such \emph{trollish}
antics are hardly surprising. Watching the success of the
\emph{undeserving} drives men (and bitches) mad and academics, despite
being a tad \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pqyax6gwzQ}{smarter
than the average bear}, are not exempt.

The snarky back-biting of resentful peers is understandable and I'm sure
people like Sagan and Tyson eventually come to see it as a laurel. Yes,
Cosmos is dumbing down General Relativity, glossing over the fine points
of the Standard Model and ignoring many of the complications of DNA/RNA
replication but what the Hell do you expect? Nature is a complicated
beast and human beings are slightly evolved naked apes. Most of us can
barely walk and chew let alone ponder the formal mathematics of
renormalization. Cosmos will not to turn people into Nobel candidates
but it might teach them enough to think twice about bowing to lunacies
like: the Earth is six thousand years old, there was a global flood in
recent times, dowsing works, unidentified lights in the sky are alien
spaceships, vaccinations cause autism, bigfoot is crapping in backyards,
evolution is wrong, global warming is going to kill us all and prophecy
is real.

Science is hard on nonsense but only if it engages. The biggest mistake
you can make is ceding the battlefield to your enemies. Recently
\href{http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-macmillan/bill-nye-creation-debate_b_4775207.html}{Bill
Nye took a lot of heat for debating a creationist}. In silly lefty
circles\emph{~talking to these people only elevates them}. They felt Nye
was making a big mistake by sharing the stage with a young earther, but
then lefties have always been more comfortable with outright
suppression, libelous slander and five-minute hates. \emph{Shut up they
explained!} Winning an argument on pure intellectual merit reeks of
white male privilege and decent liberal airheads just don't go there.
Now I'm more of a crush your enemies, ``drive them before you, and
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6PQ6335puOc}{hear the lamentations
of the women}," type of guy. So I'm glad people like Nye, Tyson and
Sagan suit up and slay nitwits.

And, when it came to slaying nitwits, Sagan was in a rarefied class. He
debunked~\href{http://science1.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2001/ast24may_1/}{Mars
facer's}, \href{http://www.skepdic.com/velikov.html}{Velikovsky
enthusiasts},~UFO fanatics and more with characteristic style. Twenty
years later his arguments still hold up. Sagan's adherence to the
skeptic's creed\emph{, it's not the skeptic's job to prove an assertion
false, it's the proponent's job to make its case,} infuriated opponents
and delighted ``drive them before you'' hard-asses like myself. This all
happened before the Internet was widely available so I didn't see how
deeply Sagan got under idiot skin until he died in 1996.

By 1996 the web had spread everywhere you could make a phone call. I was
using 56K BAUD dial-up then and for someone who started with 300 BAUD
acoustic modems it seemed like a golden age. The day that Sagan died I
remember thinking ``it will be interesting to read the public's
eulogies.''  I logged on expecting human decency only to find, \emph{for
the first time}, Internet trolls. Large numbers of vicious cretins hated
Sagan and actively celebrated his death. The morbidly religious imagined
a sodomized Sagan roasting in Hell for the crime of atheism while scores
of UFO dolts reiterated the very fallacies Sagan had debunked: the
feeble-minded love proof by repetition. I wasn't shocked, I don't do
shock, but I was surprised. The tone was everything we've come to expect
and love in modern unhinged troll-dom. I downgraded my already low
opinion of mankind.

As nasty as Sagan's death celebrations were I consoled myself with the
fact that we're not burned alive for entertaining unpopular cosmologies.
It wasn't always so as Cosmos attests. Left unchecked the omnipresent
goons among us would love to grind Orwell's boot in our faces forever.~
Part of what holds them at bay is science and its ambassadors like Tyson
and Sagan. So thanks Neil, and please continue ignoring your academic
trolls.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{cosmos_spacetime_odyssey_titlecard.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:4624X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}