%\input{bmamblenew.tex}

%extrarct-begin mark - comment in/out
%\HRule
%
%\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{SCfigure}[100][!hb]
%\centering
%\href{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/}{\includegraphics[width=0.11\textwidth]{adndsymsmall.png}}
%\caption{
%Extracted from: \href{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org}{\textbf{Analyze the Data not the Drivel}}.\\
%See: \url{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org}
%}
%\end{SCfigure}
%
%\begin{center}
%{\tiny 
%src-tex: \url{https://github.com/bakerjd99/Analyze-the-Data-not-the-Drivel/blob/master/wp2latex/donaldpatterson7844.tex}\\
%src-md: \url{https://github.com/bakerjd99/Analyze-the-Data-not-the-Drivel/blob/master/wp2epub/donaldpatterson7844.markdown}\\
%%src-tex-sha256: --[post-sha256]--\\
%\footnotesize
%\copyright Copyright John D. Baker 2009 --- 2023 \emph{All rights reserved} 
%}
%\end{center}
%
%\HRule
%extract-end

\subsection*{\href{http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2023/05/02/donald-patterson/}{Donald Patterson}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Donald Patterson}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 02 May 2023 17:36:55}
\vspace{6pt}

A parable by \emph{Kline Leopold Hedrös} ©2023

After being missing for over a century, Donald Patterson's frozen naked
body was found sitting on a boulder overlooking a tranquil lake. His
eyes were closed, he was leaning forward, his palms were on his knees,
his legs were spread wide, a serene smile snaked over his face, and most
disturbingly, his rather large frozen penis was erect and oddly bent.
Finding anyone missing for so long is amazing, but that wasn't the
problem. The boulder Donald sat on was cryogenically cooled water ice,
the lake he was overlooking was filled with liquid Methane, and the
beach it gently lapped against was on Saturn's largest moon, Titan. The
problem was, and remains, human beings have never been to the outer
planets. How did Donald end up naked and frozen solid on Titan?

It's a freak of history that Donald's discovery by the flying European
Space Agency's Titan (ESA) \emph{Aura} probe was publicly disclosed. If
the designers of the ESA and Chinese Space Agency (CSA) Titan probes had
anticipated finding a smiling naked man with a large bent erection on
Titan, they would never have made their probe transmissions public. But
nobody expected Donald and national civilian space agencies in the
mid-21st century practiced \emph{full analytic disclosure.}

Full analytic disclosure was a reaction to what historians have called
\emph{The Fake Age}. Starting in the mid-2020s with the advent of
advanced public AIs, every bored teenager could create astonishingly
realistic fake videos showing whatever their twisted little teenage
minds could imagine. Bored teenager videos were bad enough, but soon
others, people with grudges, opportunistic scammers, trolls just doing
it for the LOLs, bitter exes, big corporations, and government
intelligence agencies also got into the high-quality fake business: the
result: a world flooded with fake videos of celebrities, politicians,
public intellectuals (please, no laughing), bitter ex-wives, aggressive
transexuals, social media influencers, religious nitwits, and generic
know-it-alls, all engaging in a full spectrum of depravities. New genres
like Your-Girlfriend-Getting-Gang-Bang-Anal and
The-President-Shitting-in-Actor-Mouths were so common that critics
suggested they needed their own \emph{Academy Awards} category.

The fakes culminated with the epic \emph{Butter}. \emph{Butter} started
with two trans-Hollywood A-listers torturing and raping kidnapped
toddlers under the ``O'' (for orgasm) of the Hollywood sign. The
penetration close-ups were the most anatomically detailed fakes ever
produced. They are still studied in video schools for their masterful
attention to detail. After raping their last toddler, the
trans-A-listers casually beheaded the poor tykes and threw their severed
heads down the hill. Again, the ``gore physics'' was of the highest
caliber. The amount of calculation required to accurately model --- to
forensic levels --- the elastic deformation of toddler head tissue
bouncing down a dirt hill was so great that many still suspect wealthy
producers like the Saudi Royals, the CCP, or the NRA-funded
\emph{Butter}. After watching their last toddler's head bounce, the
trans-A-listers boarded a conveniently loitering military helicopter and
flew straight to Sacramento. On arrival, they rappelled onto the Capitol
Building dome and shot their way into the state legislature, where they
machine-gunned and nerve-gassed prostrate begging state legislators.
\emph{Butter} ended with the National Guard storming the capitol
building, but \emph{Butter's} trans-A-listers were prepared. In the
final scene, they set off a small briefcase tactical ``dirty nuke'' that
vaporized the capitol building, killed the attacking National Guardsmen,
and left a large Cobalt 60-laced radioactive hole in downtown
Sacramento. Cynics still consider \emph{Butter} the greatest feel-good
comedy of all time.

To nobody's surprise, a world filled with fake bullshit was not a
problem for many, but it was a problem for \emph{science}. Science
answered with full analytic disclosure. It was no longer sufficient to
publish papers that referred to lame ``meta-studies,'' obscure
behind-a-paywall papers, or publicly inaccessible source data. In
\emph{The Fake Age,} every step in the research process had to be fully
disclosed, cryptographically hashed, and redundantly stored on public
blockchains. Once research data appeared on a public chain, it could
never be revised, deleted, or altered without triggering loud alarms.
And just storing data wasn't enough. All the software tools, ad-hoc
programs, working notes, and so forth also had to be put on chains where
anyone could inspect and use them. There was bitter pushback from
academics as the doctrine of full analytic disclosure took over. Many
complained that if they had to divulge their hard-won experimental data,
third parties might scoop them. Poor babies! Others whined that exposing
all the steps involved in producing papers would undermine
\emph{Ten-Million-Author-Papers'} credibility\emph{.} Everyone knew
that, of the dozens of author names appearing on group papers, only a
few, sometimes very junior researchers, did the work. Full analytic
disclosure clarified this, and the brownie point collectors didn't like
it. Again, poor babies!

Despite the pushback, academics caved because most of them were publicly
funded, and the public was no longer buying their crap. Any ``paper''
that didn't meet the highest standards of full analytic disclosure was
immediately dismissed as ``fake research.'' Also, citing ``fake papers''
had a huge negative impact on one's reputation, so it wasn't long before
full analytic disclosure was widely practiced. It was certainly
established practice when ESA and CSA designed and built their flying
Titan probes. Both agencies took extraordinary steps to guarantee the
authenticity of their Titan transmissions and to disclose every single
bit sent from Titan instantly.

All their hard work resulted in the biggest April Fool's reveal in
history. On April 1st, 2056, the first images of Donald Patterson hit
the nets. Still reeling from \emph{The Fake Age,} the public didn't
believe Donald was real. Most thought he was another high-quality fake,
and the April 1\textsuperscript{st} date did not help. As more and more
data came in, it was clear that something extraordinary had been found
on Titan, but the low-attention-span public quickly moved on. No amount
of rational fully disclosed technical arguments about the integrity of
transmission protocols would change their minds. \emph{The Fake Age} was
also known as \emph{The Stupid Age,} but aren't all human ages stupid?

The two groups that accepted Donald, conspiratorial imbeciles, and hard
scientists, loathed each other. Conspiratorial imbeciles cranked up
their insanity and suggested Donald had been abducted by alien
werewolves that ``posed'' his body on Titan after running a standard
alien anal probe panel. That's why Donald was sitting --- to conceal the
alien anal probe in his ass. There were dozens of ``competing''
conspiratorial imbecile ``theories,'' but no matter how insane,
contrived, ludicrous, incoherent, illiterate, innumerate, or batshit
silly, Donald's mere existence out-crazy-ed them all. ``The universe
\emph{really} is queerer than we can imagine.''

And that bothered hard scientists. Donald was a giant middle finger to
the established canon. People, especially technical people, love to
prattle on about how wonderful it is to rethink everything, but when
forced into a situation where you must do it, the joy evaporates, and
dread settles in. The scientific community wisely kept their mouths shut
about Donald. When pressed for comment, they predictably called for
``more research.'' When have researchers ever called for less research?

When Donald Patterson was found, he didn't have a name. At first, he was
called the ``Titan Ice Man,'' and that is still the word-police-approved
name, but the public quickly settled on ``Ice Dong'' (\#IceDong) and
took pleasure in using ``Ice Dong'' in defiance of the word police. At
first, everyone wondered if Ice Dong was a statue, an alien, or some
freak natural formation. Conceding Ice Dong's humanity was too big an
ask, so in good --- ``when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever
remains, however improbable, must be the truth'' --- fashion, the
hypotheses were tested.

The easiest option to rule out was the suggestion that Ice Dong was a
freak natural formation. If Ice Dong looked \emph{a bit} like a human
body, like some squash plants occasionally do, then most would have been
delighted to accept this explanation: a natural formation didn't require
a complete rethink of human knowledge. Unfortunately, the \emph{Aura}
probe was able to take extremely high-resolution microscopic images of
Donald's entire corpse. The detail was amazing: hair with follicles,
twisted eyebrows, nostril and pubic hairs, ear wax, tiny skin scars, toe
and fingernail cuticles, scrotum blood vessels, moles, suntan lines, and
mysteriously, a ring shadow on his left ring finger, like Donald wore a
wedding ring that was no longer there. That all this detail condensed
out of the Titan atmosphere was more improbable than finding a smiling
frozen corpse overlooking a tranquil Titan Methane Lake.

The close-up examination that ruled out a natural formation also nixed
the statue suggestion. If Ice Dong was a statue, the ``artist'' that
made him could carve microscopic details. It made more sense to assume
Ice Dong was a body. But the question remained: what type of body was
Ice Dong an alien? At this point in the investigation, this was the
preferred option. And, in another accident of history, the \emph{Aura}
probe carried an instrument capable of basic genome sequencing: the
ATCOMU (Advanced Titan Complex Organic Molecule Unit) device. When
\emph{Aura} was designed, a protracted struggle between two groups of
researchers about the ATCOMU device made the news. One group objected to
sending a sequencing device to Titan because nobody expected to find
anything like DNA on Titan. They wanted to send another instrument that
coincidently better suited their research program. It was a typical
``bitter because the stakes are so low'' academic squabble. In the end,
ATCOMU was sent to Titan because the instrument was highly versatile.
Genome sequencing was only one of many things it could do.

ATCOMU's sequencing abilities were quickly used on Ice Dong. The
\emph{Aura} probe gently drilled into Ice Dong's ankle and extracted
enough cryogenically frozen flesh and bone for analysis. \emph{Aura}
took a few hours to run a standard genome sequence and another hour and
twenty minutes to transmit the results to Earth. Still, within minutes
of hitting the nets, four DNA ancestry databases reported that Ice Dong
had living relatives in the western US, Alberta, Canada, Indiana, and
Scotland. The best match was with a fifty-year-old woman, Denise
Nielson, living in Elko, Nevada.

When contacted by reporters and government officials, Denise said her
mother's maiden name was Noreen Patterson and that Noreen had lived into
her late nineties and was buried in the Elko cemetery. The authorities
quickly exhumed Noreen's body without Denise's permission and ran a
series of genetic tests that showed Noreen was the biological daughter
of Ice Dong, or as he was now known, Donald Patterson. Within days of
identifying Donald, his Indiana relatives unearthed an old 1920s
portrait of Donald and his older brother Richard. Donald was only
seventeen years old in the picture, but his serene smile in the old
print matched the familiar image from Titan. Armed with a name and
family connections, it didn't take long to recover all the surviving
information about Donald Patterson.

As a child, he fell off the roof of his parent's second-story house and
broke his left leg. It was a bad break that healed improperly. It left
his left leg shorter than the right, and he limped from then on. In
1923, Donald and his wife Elsa eloped. The couple left Ohio for
California and, on the way, briefly lived in Amargosa, Nevada, where
Donald got a job in the Borax mines. By all accounts, they were a happy
couple, but Donald disappeared on the evening of November 11, 1923. He
was last seen walking into the desert near Corkhill Hall, later known as
the Amargosa Opera House, by some fellow Borax miners. They reported he
was limping more than usual but took the time to wave hello. It was the
last time anyone saw or heard of him. Six months later, Elsa gave birth
to Noreen. Noreen never met her father but, according to her daughter
Denise, grew up hearing stories about her dad going missing in the
desert.

As these details emerged, opinions about Donald hardened. When has more
information ever changed anyone's opinions? People who thought he was a
fake loudly repeated their views. Donald was like Christmas every day
for conspiracy cranks (they are not theorists). He had obviously been
abducted by aliens in the Nevada desert, stripped naked, anally probed,
and posed on Titan as some kind of joke. The mere fact that authorities
were not ``checking'' for alien anal probes in his ass was proof.
Quasi-rational ``Donald Deniers'' harbored one final hope. Maybe ESA and
Western countries secretly perpetuated an elaborate fraud to stop other
nations from exploring Titan. Donald was a modern form of white
neo-space imperialism. If vast mysteries were sitting on Titan, perhaps
everyone would stay away. This would allow Western imperialists to
colonize Titan and exclude people of color. It was a tiresome,
unimaginative, endlessly repeated complaint.

This objection was dashed by the Chinese Space Agency {\myAsian 巨龙蜻蜓} (Titan
Dragonfly) probe that reached Donald's location six weeks after his
discovery by ESA's \emph{Aura}. The CSA probe independently verified
Donald's presence, and, working in conjunction with the ESA probe, the
two spacecraft were able to mimic the functions of an X-ray CAT scan. It
was an impressive display of improvised software. The scan results
showed the expected human skeleton; even the poorly healed left leg
break was visible; sadly, no alien anal probes were found in Donald's
ass. Donald was real.

It has been a decade since Donald's discovery, and still, no explanation
exists for him. The public stopped caring about Donald a few months
after his discovery, but behind the scenes, governments quietly shelved
plans for more Titan exploration. Maybe it's a good idea not to provoke
whatever froze him on Titan. The very people claiming Donald was an
imperialist fraud were the loudest proponents of staying off Titan, so
Donald was left alone.

Donald Patterson is still sitting on a boulder of cryogenic ice; his
eyes are closed, he's leaning forward, his palms are on his knees, his
legs are spread wide, his large erect bent penis is frozen in place, and
a serene smile snakes over his face as he overlooks a tranquil liquid
Methane Lake on Saturn's largest moon Titan. And still, like the greater
cosmos around him, there is no explaining Donald Patterson.


%\end{document}
 
