%\input{bmamblenew.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/12/24/downloading-smugmug-captions-with-python-and-jupyter/}{Downloading SmugMug Captions with Python and Jupyter}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Downloading SmugMug Captions with Python and Jupyter}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 24 Dec 2017 20:38:48}
\vspace{6pt}

\emph{This blog post started out as an experimental rendering of a
\href{https://jupyter.org/}{Jupyter} notebook. I wanted to see how
difficult it would be to convert a notebook to a WordPress.com blog
post. Even though Jupyter exports notebooks in HTML and Markdown they do
not display well ``out of the box.'' No doubt one could craft CSS that
would help but the entire point of Jupyter exports is to cut down on
pointless format thrashing. This post is a teaser. If you want to get to
the source notebook follow
\href{https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter}{this link to my GitHub
repositories}.}

%\subsection*{Why am I doing this?}\label{why-am-i-doing-this}

\medskip
\noindent\textbf{Why am I doing this?}
\medskip


%\includegraphics[width=2.52083in,height=1.48958in]{jupytersmugmug.png}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[r]{0.23\textwidth}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{jupytersmugmug.png}
\label{fig:5512x0}
\end{floatingfigure}My
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com}{photo captions} have evolved
into a form of \emph{milliblogging}. \emph{Milliposts} (milliblog posts)
are terse and tiny; many are single sentences or paragraphs. Taken
one-at-a-time milliposts seldom impress but when gathered in hundreds or
thousands accidental epics emerge. So, to prevent ``epic loss'' I want a
simple way of downloading and archiving my captions off-line.

%\subsection*{If you don't control it you cannot trust
%it!}\label{if-you-dont-control-it-you-cannot-trust-it}

\medskip
\noindent\textbf{If you don't control it you cannot trust it!}
\medskip

When I started blogging I knew that you could not depend on blogging
websites to archive and preserve your documents. We had already seen
cases of websites mangling content, shutting down without warning, and
even worse, \emph{censoring} bloggers. It was a classic case of, ``If
you don't control it you cannot trust it.'' I resolved to keep~complete
off-line \emph{version controlled} copies of my blog posts.

Maintaining off-line copies was made easier by
\href{https://wordpress.com/}{WordPress.com}'s excellent
\href{https://en.blog.wordpress.com/2006/06/12/xml-import-export/}{blog
export utility}. A simple button push downloads a large XML file that
has all your blog posts with embedded references to images and other
inclusions. XML is not my preferred archive format. I am a huge fan of
\LaTeX\ and Markdown: two text formats that are directly supported in
Jupyter Notebooks. I wrote a little system that parses the WordPress XML
file and
\href{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2012/02/11/wordpress-to-latex-with-pandoc-and-j-prerequisites-part-1/}{generates
\LaTeX\ and Markdown} files. Yet, despite milliblogging long before
blogging, I don't have a similar system for downloading and archiving
SmugMug \emph{metadata}.
\href{https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Downloading\%20Smugmug\%20Captions\%20with\%20Jupyter.ipynb}{This
Jupyter notebook addresses this omission} and shows how you can use
Python and the SmugMug API to extract gallery and image metadata and
store it in version controlled local directories as CSV files.



%\end{document}
 
