%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/07/18/euphoria-review/}{Euphoria: Review}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Euphoria: Review}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 18 Jul 2015 16:47:38}
\vspace{6pt}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[r]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://www.lilykingbooks.com/book/euphoria/}{\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{euphoriabook.jpg}}
\label{fig:5103X0}
\end{floatingfigure}Lily
King's excellent new novel~\emph{Euphoria}~derives from an incident in
Margaret Mead's life. Margaret Mead achieved fame as a young woman with
her 1928 book
\emph{\href{http://www.amazon.com/Coming-Age-Samoa-Psychological-Civilisation/dp/0688050336}{Coming
of Age in Samoa}}. Usually scholarly works do not attract mass audiences
but the \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wPiHQ37gXnE}{good bits} of
Mead's book read like soft-core porn and introduced the~radical idea
that sexual behavior in adolescence may have strong cultural overtones.
Nowadays we lump such deep revelations in the ``No Shit Sherlock''
category!

Some of this is brilliantly alluded to in \emph{Euphoria}. The strong
female character (Nell) had written a popular book that her husband
(Fen) envied and peers deprecated. The three main characters, Nell, Fen
and Bankson, are social anthropologists doing field research in New
Guinea in the 1930s. All three have serious doubts about what they are
doing. They obliquely acknowledge the sheer conceit of foreign neophytes
descending on an unfamiliar culture and, without speaking the language,
being familiar with the environment, or knowing
\href{http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Jack+Shit}{jack
shit} about the local economy, ``decode a people,'' in a few short
months.

Early social anthropologists liked to cast themselves as
``anti-missionaries.'' \emph{Euphoria} echoes this sentiment in a~few
passages. Anthropologists were there to learn about a culture not
obliterate it with Christian sky fairy fantasies. The admirable
agnosticism of social anthropologists, you cannot take one myth
seriously when you have studied hundreds, is still blunted by an
infantile dedication to the absolute primacy of culture. We are not
animals but Rousseauian ``blank sheets'' that our culture scribbles on.
Many contemporary social scientists of the left, ``Are there any other
kind?'' bitterly dismiss criticism of this ludicrous axiom as ``White
Privilege.'' The social~anthropologists~of Mead's day may have been a
bit delusional and naive but they didn't create utter bullshit like
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critical_race_theory}{Critical Race
Theory} or, I kid you freaking not,
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microaggression_theory}{Microaggression
Theory}.

My only complaint about \emph{Euphoria} is that it romanticizes~a ``soft
pseudo-science.'' Anthropology has two major branches: physical and
social. Physical anthropology deals with things like comparative
anatomy, radioisotope dating, geological layering, and DNA; it is very
much a \emph{real} science! Social anthropology is all squishy,
personal, and non-verifiable; it is not a real science. It's not even,
to use Rutherford's exquisite burn, ``stamp collecting.'' \emph{Euphoria} makes
this all clear to scientifically literate
readers. In many ways \emph{Euphoria} is a better introduction to Mead
than Mead herself: recommended.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{euphoriabook.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:5103X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}