%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/09/02/faith-a-guilty-pleasure/}{Faith a guilty pleasure}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Faith a guilty pleasure}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 02 Sep 2012 23:47:02}
\vspace{6pt}


\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://www.squidoo.com/faith-korean-drama}{\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{faith-korean-tv.jpg}}
\label{fig:3163X0}
\end{floatingfigure}It's
a quiet Labor Day weekend in the \emph{drivel dome}\footnote{
\emph{Analyze the Data not the Drivel} is not
suitable for succinct self-deprecating self-reference.
}
and your fearless reporter is a tad bored. I could help with the
housework or get out and exercise but I have better things to do. Last
night while trolling the
\href{http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=intertubes}{intertubes}
for something to watch on \href{http://www.hulu.com/}{Hulu} I came
across a transcendentally awesome Korean TV series called
\href{http://www.hulu.com/search?q=faith}{Faith}. I know what you're
thinking. I haven't fallen off the skeptical horse. I'm still the same
old judgmental know-it-all bombastic boomer asshole you've come to know
and love. The series Faith has, as far as I can tell after many long
hours of couch research, nothing to do with religious faith. This is one
of the many reasons I adore this show.

Faith is basically another Asian martial arts epic. After the demise of
the demigod Bruce Lee it's been mandatory for Asians residing east of
Himalayas and south of Siberia to work martial arts into the plot
whether it makes any damn sense or not. The Chinese, Koreans, Japanese,
Vietnamese and other East Asians all follow Bruce's mandate with various
spins. Naturally, the most odious and predictable martial spins come
from the mainland Chinese. With few exceptions mainland martial arts
goes something like this.

Evil plots are afoot that are threatening the unity of the homeland.
Nefarious forces, mostly internal, sometimes external, are plotting to
bring down the well-ordered Middle Kingdom. A charismatic badass plans
to exploit disunity, dishonor the people and shit all over the
ancestors. Something must be done! The ruler, usually a wise emperor, or
a really hot empress, tasks some typically reluctant super warrior to
off the badass. The super warrior may have ambivalent feelings about the
current ruler but never about the homeland. Sure the current ruler is a
decadent pussy boy with weak Kung Fu and that's too bad for \emph{him}
but damn, the country is not going down on my super warrior watch.
Predictable mayhem ensues, bodies pile up, evil almost triumphs, gloats
too much, and then falls to a combination of super warrior martial arts
and old-fashioned hubris. In the end the homeland is saved and the
closing credits suggest the super warrior \emph{might} get some serious
tail. I find it interesting that Hollywood is constantly destroying
western civilization while mainland Chinese films forcefully reiterate
that the homeland will always abide. I think it's safe to say there
hasn't been an original mainland Chinese martial arts film since Bruce's
glory days.

Thankfully the South Koreans are not like mainland Chinese. Without the
burden of an oppressive humorless government forever threatening serious
consequences for plot \emph{wrong-think} South Koreans can show some
humor and originality. Faith is an excellent example. We know right away
this is not standard martial arts because the bad guys are mainland
Chinese threatening to overrun little Korea. Even odder, our hero and
heroine are the oddest of couples. He's a tall 14\textsuperscript{th}
century \emph{ultra-ninja-oid} that can shoot lightning bolts from his
hands while she is a ditsy 21\textsuperscript{st} century plastic
surgeon. It's your basic boy meets time wormhole meets girl story. Faith
only gets better after the hero drags the ditsy surgeon back to the
14\textsuperscript{th} century. The result is a comical martial arts
chick-flicky self parodying guilty pleasure. You can see the cast
members thinking
\href{http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=wtf}{WTF} between
their lines and is there a better endorsement than that?

%\begin{center}\rule{3in}{0.4pt}\end{center}

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{faith-korean-tv.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:3163X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}