%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/06/29/g20-fails-to-end-g20/}{G20 fails to end G20}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{G20 fails to end G20}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 29 Jun 2010 19:20:30}
\vspace{6pt}

%\href{http://www.jacketflap.com/megablog/index.asp?blogid=79}{\includegraphics{i-L5RD8CV-S.jpg}}
\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://www.jacketflap.com/megablog/index.asp?blogid=79}{\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{i-L5RD8CV-S.jpg}}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
\label{fig:648X0}
\end{floatingfigure}Last
weekend I passed through Toronto. The city was bracing for the
\href{http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/37901237/ns/world\_news-americas/}{over
priced} and
\href{http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2010/06/25/pointless-g-20-summit-unfolds-in-toronto/}{utterly
pointless G20 dog and pony show}. The G20 circus did not disappoint. On
cue the usual crew of
\href{http://www.calgarysun.com/news/g20/2010/06/28/14549321.html}{recreational
anarchists} left their parents basements long enough to engage the
police, set cars on fire and smash store windows. The police responded
by arresting hundreds of protestors and holding them \emph{for hours in
horrific detention facilities that
\href{http://torontoist.com/2010/06/g20\_dispatches\_everyone\_loses.php}{did
not offer vegan food!}} Hey, it's Canada, a gluten-free diet is probably
enshrined somewhere in the
\href{http://laws.justice.gc.ca/en/charter/}{Charter of Rights and
Freedoms.}

Mirroring the idiocy in the streets the G20 leaders wasted tax dollars
in grand style by
\href{http://www.rhrealitycheck.org/blog/2010/06/29/roundup-promises-protestors-promoting-maternal-child-health}{literally
phoning one in for the children}. They also muttered something about
\href{http://nbbusinessjournal.canadaeast.com/front/article/1114209}{reducing
government debt} and doing a better job of pretending to be fiscally
sane. Hey G20! I have a suggestion for that debt reduction thing --- how
about no more G20 meetings! Video conferencing software does a pretty
good job; give it a try!

Given the pitiful track record and high costs of the G20 one wonders why
any sane country would host such a boondoggle. Nothing of importance is
ever achieved at these photo-ops and if something worthwhile accidently
emerges it will be
\href{http://www.globaltradealert.org/gta-analysis/broken-promises-g20-summit-report-global-trade-alert}{ignored
or sabotaged.} I know it's good for our rulers to get out and meet with
their peers: \href{http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NgMdz2fe0CY}{all work
and no play makes Jack a dull boy}. Still it's hard, in ostensibly
democratic countries like Canada, to sell the public on the awesome
benefits of hosting the G20. \emph{Do you remember how the Canadian
public refused to fund the G20 when asked in the pre-conference
referendum?} Oops sorry, I was thinking of how things should work!
Nobody ever asks the public if they want to pay because the answer would
be a resounding no.

The G20 is coveted, courted and consummated for exactly the same reason
that more expensive boondoggles like the Olympics and the World Cup are:
it's a great opportunity to
\href{http://www.nationalpost.com/Clement+riding+stuffed+with+cash+Liberals/3163957/story.html}{punt
public funds to your friends.}

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{i-L5RD8CV-S.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:648X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}