%\input{bmamblenew.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2025/04/03/how-the-only-one-from-no-egg-made-the-world/}{How The Only One from No Egg Made the World}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{How The Only One from No Egg Made the World}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 04 Apr 2025 00:50:59}
\vspace{6pt}

\emph{A pâ creation myth.}

A long, long time ago, The Only One from No Egg, who has always been and
will always be, was lonely. The One had always been alone. He had no one
to talk to, no one to play with, no one to share with.

%\begin{figure}
%\centering
%\pandocbounded{\includegraphics[keepaspectratio]{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/from_no_egg.jpg?w=300}}
%\caption{}
%\end{figure}

% captions beside figure
 \captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{SCfigure}[50]
 \centering
 \includegraphics[width=0.30\textwidth]{from_no_egg.jpg}
 \caption[A \href{https://copilot.microsoft.com/}{CoPilot} image for \emph{The Only One from No Egg}.]{A \href{https://copilot.microsoft.com/}{CoPilot} image generated from the text of \emph{The Only One from No Egg} text. It picked up on the three eggs and renders The One as a feathered deity. This is not how the pâ are, but it’s close enough for a first stab. The era of high-priced cover art is over. AI is devouring the market. Soon, AI will probably be just devouring full stop.}
 \label{fig:8269x0}
 \end{SCfigure}


He said, ``I will make a companion.'' And so he did.

The One willed a giant gleaming egg into existence. Its brilliance
filled The One with joy.

``I will hatch this egg.'' And so he did.

From the giant egg, a gleaming companion emerged. The One said, ``I will
call my companion Gleaming She.''

At first, Gleaming She brightened The One. He was no longer lonely. The
One and Gleaming She talked, played, and shared. The One was never
happier. Gleaming She was good company, but after many, many long ages,
The One found Gleaming She never stopped talking. When The One wanted
quiet, Gleaming She was there---yammering.

The One asked himself, ``Did I make a mistake? Is Gleaming She a bad
egg?''

The One endured Gleaming She for many more ages, but The One's vast
patience is not without bound.

Worn down by her nagging, The One said, ``I will break Gleaming She and
scatter her about.'' And so he did.

The One shattered Gleaming She into millions of tiny twinkling shards
and cast them over the sky. And thus, the stars were made. The sparkling
shards still yammered, but their little far-away voices were pleasant: a
soothing hum. The One could hear himself think again.

For a long time, The Only One from No Egg was content, but once again,
he got lonely.

``I will make some more companions.''

Recalling his Gleaming She mistake, this time, he willed three smaller
eggs into existence.

He thought, ``If there are three, they can talk with each other and give
me peace.''

One of the three eggs was much larger and brighter than the others. The
One put the Bright Egg in the center of the nest. Then he put the
largest of the other two, Big Egg, beside Bright Egg. Finally, he put
the smallest egg, Little Egg, next to Big Egg. His nest delighted The
One. He was about to hatch his three eggs when he had a better idea.

``I will not hatch these eggs and leave them be.'' Thus, the sun, moon,
and land were made.

``On the smallest of the eggs, I will put two tiny eggs and hatch
them.'' And so he did.

``Now I have tiny people to keep me company when it pleases me, but they
are so small that their little faint voices will not disturb my peace.''

And thus, the first pâ eggs, the ancestors of us all, were laid in our
world.



%\end{document}
