%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/01/12/its-all-over-for-broadcast-tv/}{It's all over for Broadcast TV}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{It's all over for Broadcast TV}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 12 Jan 2011 06:21:21}
\vspace{6pt}

%\includegraphics{i-Q6CM5Rx-S.jpg}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{i-Q6CM5Rx-S.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
\label{fig:996X0}
\end{floatingfigure}Human
beings are worthless
\href{http://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/independent-woman/love-sex/why-do-successful-women-settle-for-lazy-lumps-1587083.html}{lumps
of lazy protoplasm}. We only change our bad habits when that bitch ---
\emph{reality} --- forces us to reconsider our wayward ways. In this
respect the
\href{http://www.theatlanticwire.com/opinions/view/opinion/It-Will-Take-Years-for-Your-Paycheck-to-Recover-From-the-Great-Recession-6523}{great
recession} has been a wonderful teacher. It's sat us down and made us
stare at the books. And arithmetic, being what it is, has brought out
the savage budget slasher in all of us.

The amount of money we were handing over to the cable company for the
privilege of watching crap on TV could not be justified. We cut it off
--- no cable, no satellite, no HD, nada zip zilch! When annualized
that's \$500 bucks. What the hell were we thinking? \$500 dollars wasted
on TV. Thank you recession.

\href{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OMG\_They\_Killed\_Kenny}{OMG} no
live TV - how do you survive? Being old farts we starting reading more
but then one day, in the midst of acute
\href{http://www.hulu.com/family-guy}{Family Guy} withdrawal, we tried
streaming. It had been years since I last tried watching video on
computers. Five years ago streaming video was more like
\href{http://www.thebestpageintheuniverse.net/c.cgi?u=episode3}{steaming
pile} of video. I didn't expect things had improved but I was wrong. On
high-speed internet connections streaming is now \emph{good enough} to
replace TV. For months we've been enjoying free streaming sites like
\href{http://www.hulu.com/}{Hulu}. I really enjoy some old, rarely seen,
classic TV programs. Check out this
\href{http://www.hulu.com/embed/sp1x3wBXdMfrNzCrDGiIYg}{episode of
Alfred Hitchcock Presents}. It's a neat story with a probability lesson
and a
\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/29/hard-ass-skeptic-rules/}{hard
ass skeptic} ending.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{i-Q6CM5Rx-S.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:996X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}


%\end{document}