%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2021/02/21/my-fathers-obituary/}{My Father's Obituary}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{My Father's Obituary}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 21 Feb 2021 20:22:48}
\vspace{6pt}

\emph{The following is an obituary I wrote for my recently deceased
father. The original was posted the on the
\href{https://www.franzen-davis.com/obituaries/Franklin-Burdick-Baker?obId=19950108}{Franzen
Davis Funeral Home} website. This version incorporates some minor
adjustments and corrections that were noted by my brother.}

\medskip

Franklin Burdick Baker, age 87, of Las Vegas formerly of Bozeman, died
on Tuesday morning February 9\textsuperscript{th}, 2021 at Nathan
Adelson Hospice in Las Vegas Nevada. His son John and his
daughter-in-law Malihe were at his side when he died. A celebration of
Franks's Life will be held Friday, February 26th at Franzen-Davis
Funeral Home in Livingston Montana.

\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}
\begin{SCfigure}[50]
\centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/i-KZxPpwz/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{franktoddlerportrait.jpg}}
\caption{My recently deceased father as a pudgy toddler. It's important
to remember people at many times during their lives. Dad died at 87 but
he wasn't always an old man. I remember him as a young man and portraits
like this take us back into his childhood.}
\label{fig:7074x0}
\end{SCfigure}
%\end{figure}

Frank was born in Livingston Montana on September
15\textsuperscript{th}, 1933. He was the only surviving child of Frank
A. Baker and Helen (Burdick) Baker also of Livingston Montana. Frank
grew up in Livingston and graduated from Park High School in 1951. In
high school Frank used the name Dick Baker, he was also known as
``Whoa-Whoa,'' (see Park High's \emph{1951 Ranger} yearbook). For a few
years, his future wife Evelyn (Eggar) Baker, lived kitty-corner to
Frank's home on South Fifth Street. Frank and Evelyn met as children and
married as very young adults: Frank was twenty and Evelyn was a few days
shy of eighteen. Shortly after their marriage Frank and Evelyn moved to
Butte Montana where Frank studied Petroleum Engineering at the then
Montana School of Mines (now Montana Tech). While in Butte two of
Frank's surviving children were born: John and Aileen. Frank and
Evelyn's third child Steve was born a few years later in Moab Utah.

%\begin{figure}
\begin{SCfigure}[50]
\centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/i-SXfn4nQ/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{frankfrankhelenjuly1941.jpg}}
\caption{A rare dated snapshot of my grandparents Frank (Senior) and
Helen with my dad Frank. Taken in the summer before Pearl Harbor, just
before the US entered World War II. My grandfathers were already too old
for the draft and my father was way too young. This family slipped
through the chaos relatively unscathed. Avoiding the craziness of any
age is the hallmark of good fortune and intelligence.}
\label{fig:7074x1}
\end{SCfigure}
%\end{figure}

Frank graduated from Montana Tech in 1956 and started his long and
successful Petroleum Engineering career in Rangely Colorado. For the
next forty years, Frank drilled for oil all over the world. He
wildcatted all over the western US. Brought in some massive 60 thousand
barrel-a-day wells in southern Iran, worked in the -40C weather of
Canadian winters, drilled deep offshore in Scotland, Norway, Indonesia,
and South Korea. Frank progressed from a young engineer babysitting
wildcat wells to managing large offshore drilling operations involving
hundreds of people. By all accounts, Frank was an exemplary drilling
engineer and was proud of his work.

%\begin{figure}
\begin{SCfigure}[50]
\centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/i-Z5FBnXx/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{evelynfrankmonument1952.jpg}}
\caption{My parents Evelyn and Frank. This was probably taken shortly
after my dad graduated from High School and about a year before my
birth. My parents were together for almost sixty years but we have very
few pictures of the two of them together.}
\label{fig:7074x2}
\end{SCfigure}
%\end{figure}

When not working Frank was probably on the golf course. In his prime
Frank was a scratch golfer; that's shooting par for you duffers. When he
wasn't playing golf he was watching it. In 1960 he was on the
18\textsuperscript{th} green at Cherry Hills watching Arnold Palmer
score a dramatic win in the US Open. Frank was also a capable basketball
and baseball player. He was invited by the St. Louis Browns, a then
major league baseball team to try out for their minor league affiliate
but his mother wouldn't have it. Professional sports weren't dignified
enough!

Outside of work and play Frank was a proud father. He and his wife
Evelyn raised three children: John, Aileen, and Steven Baker. They, in
turn, gave Frank four grandchildren, Brianna, Helen, Amanda, and Jacob
and five great-grandchildren all of whom survive and miss him. Frank is
now free to join his pre-deceased wife Evelyn.

Frank will be interred in Mountain View Cemetery beside his wife Evelyn.

%\begin{figure}
\begin{SCfigure}[50]
\centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/i-7mCwg3D/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{frankbaker2000.jpg}}
\caption{I snapped this shot of my dad in the dining room of the
Riverside Golf Club in Bozeman. It's one of my better snapshots of him.}
\label{fig:7074x3}
\end{SCfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}
 
