%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/12/04/revenge-of-the-phd-camera/}{Revenge of the PhD Camera}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Revenge of the PhD Camera}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 05 Dec 2011 05:01:51}
\vspace{6pt}

Cameras come in two flavors. There are expensive \emph{serious} cameras
used by serious photographers to take serious photographs and then there
are PhD, (\textbf{P}ush \textbf{h}ere \textbf{D}ummy), cameras. Serious
cameras meet the highest technical standards, lenses are diffraction
limited, chromatic aberration approaches zero, pixel counts match
\href{http://www.normankoren.com/Tutorials/MTF2.html}{Nyquist limits},
ISO's exceed retinal sensitivity, auto-focus is instantaneous, color
spaces are wide, calibrated and range into the infra-red and
ultra-violet. \emph{PhD cameras don't go there! PhD cameras provide a
button for dummies to push.} Over the years I've ying'ed and yang'ed
from serious to PhD cameras. It's not that I cannot make up my mind.
Camera choice is another eternal struggle sort of like that squabble
between good and evil or light and regular beers.


%\href{http://1000memories.com/blog/94-number-of-photos-ever-taken-digital-and-analog-in-shoebox}{\includegraphics{i-JV33FXZ-M.png}}
\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{figure}[ht]
\begin{minipage}[b]{0.50\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://1000memories.com/blog/94-number-of-photos-ever-taken-digital-and-analog-in-shoebox}{\includegraphics[width=0.60\textwidth]{i-JV33FXZ-M.png}}
\caption{Worlds largest photo libraries}
\label{fig:2215X1}
\end{minipage}
\begin{minipage}[b]{0.50\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Diaries/Cell-Phoning-It-In/17756793\_PfCsJz}{\includegraphics[width=0.60\textwidth]{water-main-cove-hipstamatic-S.jpg}}
\caption{Hipstamatic water  meter}
\label{fig:2215X0}
\end{minipage}
\end{figure}



\begin{floatingfigure}[r]{0.23\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Diaries/Cell-Phoning-It-In/17756793\_PfCsJz}{\includegraphics[width=0.22\textwidth]{bird-shoulder-statue-forest-S.jpg}}
\caption{Mixing up cell phone color channels}
\label{fig:2215X2}
\end{floatingfigure}When I'm on a serious photography kick I put time, expertise and money
into my pictures. For me serious photography is exhausting. I seek out
worthy subjects, wait for the \emph{right light}, agonize over
composition, experiment with lenses, tweak $f$-stops, adjust shutter
speeds and take as many exposures as light and time allow. Then the post
shutter ordeal begins. Digital imaging processing makes anything
possible. You can take your exposures and like some mad photo-shopping
Rumpelstiltskin spin straw into gold. But, as in the fairy tale, there
is a high price, perfect images will suck years out of you.
Photographers often talk about \emph{workflow} and they aren't kidding.
When I start tweaking my workflow I know I'm reaching the end of my
serious rope. Photography is one of my hobbies and I never ruin hobbies
by turning them into jobs!


Eventually I snap out of it and resume PhD'ing. Unlike serious
photography PhD'ing is effortless and fun. It's always been fun,
remember \href{http://www.brownie-camera.com/}{Brownies} and
\href{http://camerapedia.wikia.com/wiki/Instamatic}{Instamatics}, but
this \emph{is the golden age of PhD photography!} In the last decade PhD
cameras have evolved and mutated from cheap plastic boxes filled with
grainy high-speed ISO film to sophisticated little internet
photo-shopping engines that ride around in our pockets as cell phones. I
don't even know why they are called cell phones. My iPhone takes
hundreds of images for every \emph{phone call} it processes. It's really
more of an iCamera+iBrowser that can, on rare occasions, be used as a
phone. Based on
\href{http://1000memories.com/blog/94-number-of-photos-ever-taken-digital-and-analog-in-shoebox}{surveys
of web image sites} I am not the only iCamera user. PhD photography is
growing faster than the national debt.


Explosive growth attracts armies of sinners and saints. Every two-bit
whore chasing a buck is now writing image processing software for cell
phones. In the last two years we've seen apps that
\href{http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/360-panorama/id377342622?mt=8}{stitch
panoramas on the fly}, apply
\href{http://www.appbrain.com/app/camera-360/vStudio.Android.GPhoto}{cheesy
photo-shop effects} and automatically create
\href{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High\_dynamic\_range\_imaging}{HDR}
images by blending two or more exposures. As
\href{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sturgeon's\_Law}{Sturgeon's law}
predicts most of these apps are crap but that's not a problem for PhD
photography. The goal is to offer a fun button for dummies. My favorite
PhD app is a great little toy called
\href{http://hipstamatic.com/the\_app.html}{Hipstamatic}. Hipstamatic
simulates crappy old PhD film cameras loaded with expired film. You can
choose a lens, a film and a flash or you can just shake your iPhone and
let it randomly select these parameters. Shake and shoot; it's the
revenge of the PhD camera.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{water-main-cove-hipstamatic-S.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:2215X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{i-JV33FXZ-M.png}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:2215X1}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{bird-shoulder-statue-forest-S.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:2215X2}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}