%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/01/review-into-the-wild/}{Review: Into the Wild}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Review: Into the Wild}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 02 Apr 2014 01:26:18}
\vspace{6pt}

%\href{http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1845.Into\_the\_Wild}{\includegraphics{intothewild.jpg}}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1845.Into\_the\_Wild}{\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{intothewild.jpg}}
\label{fig:4604X0}
\end{floatingfigure} Anyone
contemplating a ``return to nature'' would be well advised to read
\href{http://www.amazon.com/Into-Wild-Jon-Krakauer/dp/0385486804}{Into
the Wild} first. This gripping little book investigates the last journey
of
\href{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christopher\_McCandless}{Christopher
McCandless}: a young man who walked into the Alaskan wilds north of
Denali in the early 1990's with the intention of living off the land. He
was woefully under-equipped, both materially and mentally, and in less
than four months he starved to death.

People fall into two camps when hearing Chris's tale. There is the ``too
stupid or crazy to live camp'' and the ``we understand what he was
trying to do camp.'' Like the author, Jon Krakauer, I'm in the more
sympathetic camp. We've all imagined putting civilization's bullshit
behind us and getting back to a more primal way of life. The human
animal evolved in the wild. For over a hundred thousand years we roved
the Earth in small nomadic groups of hunter gatherers: civilization is a
recent invention and our inner animal is not entirely OK with it.

Chris's desire to experience raw unfiltered nature is universal. When I
was Chris's age I took off on long solo backpacking trips. I wasn't
acting out Thoreau'esque desires to embrace nature; I just couldn't
always find a partner. On one of my trips I got lost in the Canadian
Rockies and decided to follow a river down a mountain. It was a mistake
and I eventually came to an impassable roaring cataract. For a few
minutes I felt a bit of what Chris endured when the Teklakania, a river
he had easily crossed in early spring, had swollen into a raging torrent
that trapped him in the Alaskan backwoods. If you live by a river you
know they are ever-changing beasts. I am not sure Chris understood this
and it cost him his life. I didn't cross my river and Chris wisely chose
not to cross his: freezing water and fast currents kill the best
swimmers. I spent a day backtracking and eventually found the trail I
left. Chris wasn't so lucky. A month after the Teklakania blocked his
return from the wilds Chris was dead from starvation.

Chris wasn't ready for his trip and given his superior intelligence I am
pretty sure he knew it, but he didn't care and it's hard to understand
why. When people embark on new, potentially fatal, endeavors they either
prepare or don't realize they should! There are many amusing stories of
clueless dolts getting way in over their teeny~tiny heads and paying
dearly. Hubris, it's not just for ancient Greek heroes; it kills every
single day. Part of training for anything is admitting you don't know
Jack, and, if you're putting your sorry ass on the line, getting some
pointers from people who do! Any good diving, climbing, or kayaking
course will quickly drive home the point that mommy nature is one big
capricious ass kicking bitch that will crush you without a femtosecond of
remorse. Training addresses the
\href{http://www.gruffducks.com/rumsphil.html}{Rumsfeldian} ``known
unknowns'' by giving us opportunities to recognize dangerous situations
while we still have some control over events.

Chris thought he was preparing for his Alaskan adventure. He talked to
hunters about stalking game and meat preservation. He studied botany
monographs of edible wild plants. He told people who picked him up while
hitchhiking to Alaska what he was up to and patiently answered their
many warnings and objections. The one thing Chris did not do was spend
time with someone who had real Alaskan backwoods experience. This
amazing omission rendered his other conscientious preparations
delusional and dangerous. Chris's notes, recovered from the margins and
blank spaces of books he carried, tell how he slowly learned that he
could not wander~the land at will. Summer off-trail hiking north of
60\textsuperscript{th} is usually a muddy, boggy, bug infested, energy
draining slog. They detail his frustrations trying to smoke a moose
carcass. He didn't try the air drying method. Finally, they show that
near the end he understood his peril and bravely faced it without
self-pity.

To me Chris's biggest mistake was not walking into the Alaskan bush but
rejecting his parents, particularly his father. This colored his entire
approach to authority figures and made it very difficult for him to seek
out and profit from the experience of others. Our hunter gather
ancestors worked together to survive. They depended on and learned from
each other. They knew that rejecting your clan and wandering alone was
extremely dangerous. Well guess what, a hundred thousand years later,
it still is! The next time you think about fleeing into the wild keep
Chris in mind it might just save your behind.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{intothewild.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:4604X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}