%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/10/20/sorry-pbs-you-already-have-my-money/}{Sorry PBS you already have my Money}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Sorry PBS you already have my Money}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 20 Oct 2013 19:41:15}
\vspace{6pt}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[r]{0.40\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://www.freneticfunnies.com/weeklies/2007-sept-9-PBS.php}{\includegraphics[width=0.38\textwidth]{2007-sept-9-pbs.png}}
\label{fig:4308X0}
\end{floatingfigure} PBS
is begging for money again. \href{http://www.pbs.org/}{PBS} is a US
public broadcasting network. Like all public English language
broadcasters, (CBC Canada, ABC Australia, BBC UK), PBS is filled with
tiresome left wingers that do not see themselves as left wingers. It's
still easy to find \href{http://billmoyers.com/}{disingenuous tools} in
these intuitions that publicly declare they're bias free.

\textbf{Really?}

There's nothing but biased broadcasting! The only remotely objective
broadcasting is weather forecasting and even that's often ruined by
climate change hysterics. Right wingers are equally biased but they're
generally more aware of it. Not because they're richer, taller, better
educated and more handsome than left wingers but simply because they're
exposed to non-stop derision and mockery. If you seek balanced budgets
you're obviously a racist, baby killing, privileged white male.
\emph{It's only logical.} My answer to insufferable bias is to change
the channel or click elsewhere which brings me back to PBS.

FOX News haters have the option of \textbf{not watching and not paying}
for FOX News. PBS, CBC, ABC \& BBC haters have the option of \textbf{not
watching and paying} for PBS, CBC, ABC \& BBC. Do you see the logical
asymmetry? There's a missing \textbf{not} when it comes to public
broadcasters. We are \textbf{not} given a choice when it comes to paying
for their crap. Lack of choice has another name: coercion. Just try
\textbf{not} paying for PBS, CBC, ABC \& BBC and see what happens? At
some point an oppressive and utterly thuggish national taxation
authority will come down on your racist, baby killing, privileged white
male head.

Lefties don't see a problem here. What's the big deal? We have elections
and vote in legislatures that pass laws that we, as members of
representative democracies, approve of. Some of these laws fund stuff we
don't like. As a card-carrying lefty I detest military spending and
corporate tax breaks but you don't see me going on about it.

\textbf{Really?}

I can trump your lefty love of democracy by demanding more it.
\textbf{How about public democratic line item budgeting?} I would be
absolutely delighted if our duly elected legislatures presented us with
a long list of proposed government expenses and then charged us with
voting, line by line, for what we like and don't like. Lefties could
\emph{democratically} vote down military and corporate taxes. Righties
could \emph{democratically} vote down PBS and foreign aid. \emph{Any
measure commanding majority support gets funded and everything else gets
dropped!} I suspect, if presented with such a list, we'd very quickly
come to our financial senses but what are the chances such a list will
ever be presented to citizens of the US, Canada, Australia or any other
freaking country? Snowballs in Hell get better odds.

So what's a fiscally sane person to do when besieged with the plaintive
cries of partially publicly funded entities begging for more cash?
\textbf{Sorry PBS - you've~already picked my pockets.} Coerced charity
is not charity. Until you're completely weaned from the government teat
you will never get another dime from this racist, baby killing,
privileged white male.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{2007-sept-9-pbs.gif}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:4308X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}