%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/03/24/the-hunger-games-a-libertarian-dead-teenager-movie/}{The Hunger Games: a Libertarian Dead Teenager Movie.}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{The Hunger Games: a Libertarian Dead Teenager Movie.}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 24 Mar 2012 23:12:49}
\vspace{6pt}

\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.32\textwidth}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.30\textwidth]{i-VwKhS3q-L.jpg}
\label{fig:2685X0}
\end{floatingfigure}I've
always enjoyed watching teenagers die. Even when I was a teenager, back
in the early Pleistocene, I couldn't get enough adolescent annihilation.
Now that I am a certified, some would say certifiable, drooling old fart
boomer I enjoy it even more. Youthful folly: it's riveting entertainment
for the elderly. Given my macabre inclinations I looked forward to the
\href{http://www.thehungergamesmovie.com/}{Hunger Games} with the same
--- \emph{oh my god, lol, like enthusiasm} --- of a screeching teenage
girl which, oddly, is the movie's target demographic. Well did the
Hunger Games disappoint and, more importantly, is it worth ten bucks? In
two words: \textbf{no} and \textbf{yes}.

The world of the Hunger Games is your typical progressive green fascist
paradise. The sort of place our
\href{http://www.thenewamerican.com/usnews/politics/11094-ethical-meltdown-global-warming-alarmists-defend-peter-gleicks-theft-fraud}{global
warming alarmists}, whale saving
\href{http://bardofely.hubpages.com/hub/Was-Charles-Manson-the-first-eco-warrior}{eco-warriors},
\href{http://autos.aol.com/article/why-the-chevy-volt-is-attracting-wealthy-buyers/}{Volt
driving poseurs},
\href{http://www.thefreemanonline.org/book-reviews/the-complete-idiots-guide-to-economics/}{anti-capitalist
philosophers} and
\href{http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KI-BCbKuJGA}{leader venerating
loons} would like to live. Panem, the principal nation-state depicted in
the Hunger Games, is split into two familiar classes: the haves and the
have-nots. The haves live in a gleaming special
\href{http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/microsoftpri0/2017796920\_touring\_the\_hunger\_games\_panems\_capitol\_city\_with.html}{Capitol}
city and the have-nots grunge away their pointless little people lives
in twelve impoverished out-lying districts. Naked force keeps everything
in a nice green line. Sure the people in the Capitol while away their
carefree days in an endless who can dress like the gayest circus clown
contest while the peons in the outer districts fantasize about bread but
\href{http://thehumanfuture.cbc-network.org/2012/03/global-warming-hysteria-embracing-their-inner-transhumanist/}{sacrifices
must be made to manage our carbon footprint.}

To break the oppressive tedium of face painting, hair dressing and color
coordination every year the rulers of Panem select twenty-four lucky
teenage \href{http://thehungergames.wikia.com/wiki/Tributes}{Tributes}
from the twelve out-lying districts and make them fight to the death in
Panem's version of ultimate survivor: The Hunger Games. There's some
background filler about how the games are a punishment and reminder of a
long ago civil war that went badly for the out-lying districts. The
games, as one smarmy TV announcer played by
\href{http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0001804/}{Stanley Tucci} said, ``bring
us together.'' Yeah, there's nothing like raw fear and continual
humiliation to bring a people together.

Face paint and swashbuckling hot heroine, (played by
\href{http://www.imdb.com/name/nm2225369}{Jennifer Lawrence}), aside the
world of the Hunger Games is the most credible Sci-Fi dystopia to emerge
in years. The laws of physics hold in this movie! There's no flying
faster than the speed of light, no summoning of magical or supernatural
forces and no hinging entire
\href{http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/01/04/avatar-pocahontas-in-spac\_n\_410538.html}{pocahantian}
plot lines on imaginary
\href{http://open.salon.com/blog/the\_new\_number\_two/2010/01/18/unobtainium\_is\_a\_joke\_and\_so\_is\_your\_movie}{Unobtainium}.
Nothing depicted in the Hunger Games is, as far as we know, impossible.
We could build Panem today with off-the-shelf technology. It's probably
lost of the popcorn crowd but the world's physical plausibility is a
powerful frame for the story because this shit has already happened. The
mayhem of Hunger Games is no worse than what transpired for centuries in
Roman amphitheatres, Aztec ball courts or medieval jousting tournaments.
Humans can be gamed to the death for the filmiest of reasons. This is
the real horror of the film; it's not much a stretch from where we've
been, to where we are, to what we might become.

I do not fear imaginary monsters; there are plenty of real ones to worry
about and the real Hunger Game monsters are with us now. 
Our biggest monster is our naive belief that we've put all this
aside: that no modern democratic state could degenerate into a tidy
Panemian tyranny, that liberty and freedom, once achieved, is eternal.
I'm not so sanguine; we're a lot closer to a Panem than you might think.
If you handed out firearms to the contestants of your average reality TV
show we'd be there: minus the green high-speed maglev trains of course.
(Don't worry there's a stimulus
\href{http://highspeedboondoggle.com/}{boondoggle} for the maglev
trains.) Ask yourself, if we armed the
\href{http://www.eonline.com/on/shows/kardashians/index.html}{Kardashians}
and made them fight to death on TV how many would care, how many
would be relieved, how many Vegas bets would be made? I suspect most
would dress up in their gayest apparel and party like Panemians
celebrating another dead teenager.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{i-VwKhS3q-L.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:2685X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}