%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/05/15/the-reports-of-library-death-are-exaggerated/}{The Reports of Library Death are Exaggerated}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{The Reports of Library Death are Exaggerated}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 15 May 2010 15:15:24}
\vspace{6pt}

Not so long ago the pundits were predicting the Internet would kill
public libraries. Boy were they wrong! Libraries have become the biggest
and most successful Internet cafes around. I've been to \emph{Internet
enabled} public libraries all over the country and they are
\emph{extremely} busy. The downtown \href{http://www.lapl.org/}{Los
Angeles library} has an entire room devoted to teens and it is always
full!
%\href{http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Places/USA-and-Canada/California-Captures-1/7414962\_GvQmf\#481340238\_Gnpg9}{\includegraphics{481340238_Gnpg9-S.jpg}}
\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.40\textwidth}
\centering
\href{http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Places/USA-and-Canada/California-Captures-1/7414962\_GvQmf\#481340238\_Gnpg9}{\includegraphics[width=0.38\textwidth]{481340238_Gnpg9-S.jpg}}
\caption{Los Angeles public library fountain}
\label{fig:511X0}
%\end{figure}
\end{floatingfigure} Now
I hung out in libraries when I was fourteen but then I was a virgin
nerd. All the cool kids were smoking dope and making out in parking
lots. Only the socially inept and plus 120 IQ crowd ever ventured into
libraries. Hence libraries were quiet and empty: great places for
afternoon naps. Not anymore! Now libraries are filled with kids playing
computer games, Facebooking, chatting and whatever else kids do on
computers. And, it's not only kids. The downtown
\href{http://www.acpl.lib.in.us/}{Fort Wayne library}, an excellent
small city library, has a big computer room and the last time I was
there it was overflowing with adults. I imagine a lot of them were
looking for work. If you're broke and need to browse job sites head to
the public library. The Internet has turned libraries into the coolest
joints in town.

The Internet has also leveled the playing field between big and small
city libraries. Bluffton Indiana is a dinky little town but it's
\href{http://www.blufftonpubliclibrary.org/}{public library} is better
than the
\href{http://www.libdex.com/country/canada/ontario/nepean/library\_33680.html}{Nepean}
or
\href{http://www.libdex.com/country/canada/ontario/orleans/library\_24028.html}{Orleans}
libraries in Ottawa: cities that are ten times Bluffton's size. The same
holds for the Fort Wayne's public library. Fort Wayne is a small run
down mid western city. If you drive around the place it doesn't impress
you but go to the public library and check out the mathematics and
history stacks. Mathematics is a good test of library quality. Public
libraries seldom compete with University libraries when it comes to
mathematics but the Fort Wayne library does surprisingly well. You find
real honest to god mathematics tomes on its shelves. Its history stacks
are first class and the biggest surprise; it's a
\href{http://www.acpl.lib.in.us/genealogy/}{world-class genealogy
library.} It's rated number two in the entire US for genealogy. Only the
\href{http://www.ancestorhunt.com/mormon\_church\_records.htm}{obsessed
Mormons} out in Salt Lake City have a better collection. After sampling
Indiana's libraries I decided there was more to this state than corn
fields and basketball.

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{481340238_Gnpg9-S.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:511X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}