%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/07/28/the-20-seconds-that-ruined-inception/}{The 20 seconds that ruined Inception}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{The 20 seconds that ruined Inception}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 28 Jul 2010 18:24:00}
\vspace{6pt}

%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\centering
%\includegraphics{inception_reordered_thumb.jpg}
%\caption{Inception Token}
%\end{figure}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.21\textwidth}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.18\textwidth]{inception_reordered_thumb.jpg}
\label{fig:696X0}
\end{floatingfigure}Last week I saw
\href{http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/inception/}{Inception} with my
daughter. I was seriously considering giving this flick a miss after
reading
\href{http://michellemalkin.com/2010/07/17/if-you-miss-just-one-movie-this-year-make-it-inception/}{Michelle
Malkin's} rant about its empty-headed actors. Nothing ruins a movie
faster than an actor going off-script! Actors are given scripts
\textbf{\emph{written by others}} for very good reasons. Most of them
have
\href{http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jim-carrey/the-judgment-on-vaccines\_b\_189777.html}{stunted
childlike minds} that rarely emit ideas worth considering. I have no
patience for such nonsense and I certainly won't pay for it. Lucky for
Inception its Cineplex competitors were defining a new standard of
\href{http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/last\_airbender/}{airbending
suckitude} --- move over
\href{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan\_9\_from\_Outer\_Space}{Plan 9}
there's a new fetid
\href{http://www.doubletongued.org/index.php/dictionary/pant\_load/}{pant
load} in town.

%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\centering
%\includegraphics{spoiler_alert_thumb.jpg}
%\caption{Spoiler Alert}
%\end{figure}



\begin{floatingfigure}[r]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.18\textwidth]{spoiler_alert_thumb.jpg}
\label{fig:696X1}
\end{floatingfigure}To my relief the juvenile politics of Inception's actors did not
manifest in the movie. Inception is a fine film but it threw away its
\emph{slim} chance at greatness in the last twenty seconds. At this
point I must issue an all points spoiler alert. \textbf{Do not read
beyond this paragraph if you want to preserve your faint chance of being
surprised.}

Inception is all about recursive nature of reality and dreams. What is a
dream and what is reality? How does dream time relate to real-time? Does
such a question even make sense? Are we in a dream? What happens if we
dream in a dream? The movie tackles these themes with technical gusto.
The special effects are \emph{so special} you forget about being
impressed and just enjoy the story. On this account Inception succeeds
were \href{http://www.avatarmovie.com/}{Avatar} sounded some sour notes.
You cannot fault this movie on technical grounds. Nor can you fault it
on cheesy subject matter. How many Hollywood blockbusters deal with the
nature of reality?

To avoid getting lost in dreams the Inception dreamers carried a
personal test token. The test token is a small object that \emph{behaves
one way in dream worlds and another way in reality.} And, \emph{this is
crucial to Inception's plot}, only one dreamer should know the token's
trick.
\href{http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonardo\_DiCaprio}{DiCaprio's}
character used the spinning top shown above. As some readers have
pointed out the spinning top is DiCaprio's wife's token but \emph{he
knows} that in dreams the top never stops spinning while in the real
world it tips over. By spinning the top he can distinguish dreams from
reality.

In the last twenty seconds of Inception DiCaprio's character returns
home and starts the top spinning on a table. Throughout the film he has
been trying to catch glimpses of his children's faces. In his dreams
their faces are always turned away. Finally, they turn their heads and
he sees their faces. Then the camera cuts to the spinning token. It's
still spinning but it's wobbling and starting to fall.

The film ends before the token falls. I'm guessing the director just
couldn't stomach the \emph{focus group happy ending} and spared us the
indignity of watching the top fall. Despite the residual uncertainty,
\emph{maybe it doesn't fall and this isn't reality but another dream},
the implication is clear enough we are safe and sound and back in the
real world. A better ending would have been no top wobbling and no child
faces. Then everything would have been marvelously ambiguous and
unclear. \textbf{Never pander to the audience art is to delicate for
that!}

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{inception_reordered_thumb.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:696X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}

%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{spoiler_alert_thumb.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:696X1}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}