%\input{bmamblenew.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/12/11/travel-diary-sydney-and-home-part-4/}{Travel Diary: Sydney and Home (Part 4)}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Travel Diary: Sydney and Home (Part 4)}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 11 Dec 2022 19:55:36}
\vspace{6pt}

\emph{This is the final installment of my Australia New Zealand travel
notes}. \emph{Click on any of the images to jump to
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/}{my
photo gallery} for this trip.}


\textbf{Day 25 Nov 3, 2022, Hyatt Regency room 917, Sydney, Mac}

Today the ship belatedly returned to Sydney; rough seas delayed our
arrival. The previous night the ship rocked, rolled, and lunged; the
shaking was severe enough to cancel an acrobat show in the Celebrity
Theater. Modern cruise ships are quite stable, even in the worst of it,
it wasn't as bad as a typical day on a North Sea oil rig supply boat.
The approach to Sydney Harbor was super scenic. I spent my remaining
hours topside taking pictures as the ship approached the dock. I believe
I got some keepers. We were held up from disembarking and stood in line
for about forty minutes. Eventually, the gangplank opened and we left
the ship for the last time.


\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-8DNHGRR/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.50\textwidth]{sydney-opera-house-cruise-ship.jpg}}
\caption{The Sydney Opera House lives up to its reputation.}
\label{fig:7627x0}
\end{figure}
 

``Cruising be like, you can't wait to get on the boat, and you can't
wait to get off.''

We took the tram from the Quay to the QVB station and then pushed our
carry-on luggage three blocks to the \href{https://www.hyatt.com/en-US/hotel/australia/hyatt-regency-sydney/sydrs}{Hyatt Regency} that overlooks
Darling Harbor. I remain impressed by the smoothness of Sydney
sidewalks. You couldn't push bags through many American cities,
especially shitholes like San Francisco and Detroit, without clogging
your suitcase wheels with urine and feces. After checking in we walked
down to Darling Harbor, had lunch, and then walked over to the Maritime
Museum and back.

Sydney has by far the finest waterfront of any city I have ever seen. It
totally blows away Toronto, San Francisco, London, San Diego, Vancouver,
Seattle, and even cities like Athens and Istanbul, as one Aussie we met
on the ship said, it was typical of the English to send their prisoners
to the best country in the world. Australia may not be the best country
but Sydney Harbor may well be the best harbor.

\textbf{Day 26 Nov 4, 2022, Hyatt Regency room 917, Sydney, iPhone}

I'm lying naked in bed cooling down after a shower. Mali is beside me
having a nap. We spent the morning and the early afternoon walking
around downtown Sydney. We started by paying a visit to a jewelry store
in the Fullerton Hotel. Before boarding the ship for New Zealand Mali bought a necklace. It was being fitted while we
cruised. She hoped to pick it up today but the fit was not quite right
and they will need another day to fit it.

While Mali was in the jewelry store, I had a flat white in the lobby
cafe. Then we started walking down Martin Place towards the Sydney
Hospital. The one with \emph{Il Porcellino} out front. I rubbed the
pig's nose. dropped a coin in the fountain, and then we walked through
The Domain to the New South Wales Art Museum. We didn't spend much time
there. Lots of very young school kids in their neat little uniforms were
visiting the museum and filling the halls with happy kid noise.


\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{SCfigure}
 \centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-kKGfSRz/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.40\textwidth]{me-il-porcellino.jpg}}
\caption[Me with \emph{Il Porcellino}]{Me with \emph{Il Porcellino}. If you rub the pig's nose and
drop a coin in the donation slot, good things will happen. Maybe not to
you, and maybe not today, but somewhere, somehow, something good with
come.}
\label{fig:7627x1}
\end{SCfigure}
 

Then we walked through the Botanic Gardens towards the Sydney Opera
House. Many groups of neatly uniformed, well-chaperoned school kids were
touring the gardens. When we reached the harbor wall, we headed over to
Mrs. Macquarie's chair. This is a bench Mr. Macquarie allegedly carved
into the rock so his wife could sit and watch the harbor. I suspect he
was just getting her out of his hair.

Then we walked to the Opera House and picked up our tickets for
tonight's show. We're going to see \emph{La Traviata}. After picking up
our tickets we had lunch at the Circular Quay and then took the city
tram to the Sydney Tower. The tower was a huge disappointment! The
Auckland tower was better, the CN Tower much better, and the Grand
Canyon Sky Walk way, way better. After the tower, we walked back to the
hotel. At six we will be heading out to the Opera House.


\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{SCfigure}[20]
 \centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-S2hzjsV/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.40\textwidth]{mali-macquarie-chair.jpg}}
\caption[Mali sitting in Mrs. Macquarie's Chair]{Mali sitting in Mrs. Macquarie's Chair. If you go to this spot
in Sydney you can read about how in 1810 Mr. Macquarie had convicts
carve a chair into the cliffs so his loving wife could sit and enjoy the
spectacular Sydney Harbor. I don't buy it. I suspect he was killing two
birds with one stone: giving the convicts something to do and getting a
nagging wife off his back. While Mrs. Macquarie sat watching the harbor,
Mr. Macquarie could retire to the salon for a drink and smoke in peace.}
\label{fig:7627x2}
\end{SCfigure}

\textbf{Day 27 Nov 5, 2022, Fullerton Hotel Lobby, Sydney, iPhone}

I'm having a flat white in the lobby bar of the Fullerton Hotel while Mali
gets her necklace adjusted.

Last night's performance of \emph{La Traviata} at the Opera House was
more interesting than entertaining. The Sydney Opera House is
spectacular on the outside but plain on the inside. The acoustics in the
Joan Sutherland theater were excellent. You could hear every note and
despite the unadorned ceilings, there were no echoes. The opera itself
was reliably ridiculous but the music was excellent. The orchestra was
first-rate and the lead singer was a bona fide diva. In one of the two
intermissions, I snapped the Moon and Jupiter above one of the Sydney
Opera House sails. I admire the discipline of opera but I am not a fan.

Today we are checking out China Town and the Zoo. A few days ago, five
lions escaped their enclosure: the cause according to Australian TV news
was ``fence issues.'' Well Duh! Now, the escapee lions are media
celebrities and even more people than usual are zoo bound.

\textbf{Day 28 Nov 6, 2022, Hyatt Regency room 917, Sydney, Mac}

We are just back from dinner at
\href{https://themeatandwineco.com/sydney-restaurants/barangaroo/}{The
Meat and Wine Company} in Barangaroo. Love the name ``Barangaroo.'' The
meat was OK but steak is steak as long as it's not screwed up.

Sydney's China Town was a working China Town. China Towns tend to be
over-gaudy tourist traps or working-class ghettos. This one was more on
the working-class side but definitely not a ghetto. Mali spent way too
much time looking for slippers. Yeah, slippers. You cross oceans to piss
away hours in China Town looking for something you can order on Amazon.
Not my idea of a good time.

After China Town, we took the tram and then walked for two or three
kilometers in Sussex Hills looking for a Persian Restaurant Mali spotted
on hotel Wi-Fi. We eventually found the restaurant. It was oriented
towards take-out but you could sit inside and eat provided you didn't
mind the take-out cartons. The food was very good; I'm a big fan of
Persian cooking.

Then we rode the tram back to Circular Quay and took the ferry over to
\href{https://taronga.org.au/sydney-zoo}{Taronga Zoo}. The zoo is
middle-of-the-road when it comes to animals but is first-rate when it
comes to geography. It's built on a hill and you enter at the top and
work your way down to the ferry. I particularly enjoyed the giraffes
posing in front of the Sydney Harbor and the city skyline.

Oh, the jailbreaking lions were not on display. Maybe the ``fence
issues'' were not entirely resolved. After the zoo, we ferried back to
Circular Quay and then walked through
\href{https://www.sydney.com/destinations/sydney/sydney-city/the-rocks}{The
Rocks}, past Barangaroo, and down Kent Street back to our hotel. We've
walked a lot in Sydney.

Today we rode the train and bus out to Bondi Beach. Sydney trains are
first class. Bondi Beach is very popular the beaches and paths were
overflowing with people. An outdoor sculpture exhibit was on at Bondi. I
snapped more pictures than I should have.

\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-DtsNvCQ/A}{\includegraphics[width=0.50\textwidth]{bondi-mirror-ball.jpg}}
\caption{Bondi Beach mirror ball.}
\label{fig:7627x3}
\end{figure}

Tomorrow, we fly back home. We've decided to take a cab to the airport.
We're tired of lugging our luggage.

\textbf{Day 29 Nov 7, 2022, Sydney Airport Terminal 1, iPhone}

I'm sitting at an Oliver Brown Coffee shop waiting to check in for our
flight home. We came to the airport way too early. We have another eight
hours to wait. Our early arrival was partly motivated by Mali's desire
to claim an Australian GST tax refund. She spent a lot of time
collecting receipts and yesterday figured that we are eligible for a
thousand AUD GST rebate. Neither one of us expects to collect but Mali
set aside sufficient time to wage war with airport customs officers. I
almost pity customs.

The other reason for our absurdly early arrival. We are tired of touring
and lugging luggage. So much so that we took a cab to the airport. We
traveled around Sydney entirely on foot and on public transport. Sydney
has superb trams, trains, and ferries. It's also a big city that you
feel completely safe in. The contrast with American shithole cities
couldn't be starker. If I win the Powerball I'm moving to Australia.
Australians have not bought into the woke bullshit to the same degree as
Americans and Canadians. There are still only two genders here and every
bathroom sign reiterates this reality with unambiguous ``Male'' and
``Female'' labels.

Postscript:

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  We are through airport security theater for the last time on this
  trip. Mali's New Zealand honey was confiscated and the Tourist Refund
  Scheme refunded \emph{nada}. I see the ``scheme'' bit but not the
  ``refund'' part. My cynicism was on point. Oh well, all those
  nice Australian services we used must be paid for and six hundred USD
  seems about right.
\item
  Also, our extra space seats didn't come through. It's going to be a
  long-packed flight.
\end{enumerate}

\textbf{Day 30 Nov 7, 2023 (cross dateline), LAX Airport, Los Angeles, iPhone}

We just flew from Sydney: a 13-hour turbulence-ridden ride. We're both
tired and our Boise flight is delayed. I just checked the Internet
security cameras at home. The house is still standing. I also turned on
a few lights. Throughout this trip, I have been checking the cameras and
randomly turning lights on and off. At best such impotent deceptions
will notify potential thieves that they may end up on camera and make
them consider trying a house without cameras.

Mali has indicated that her flight limit has been reached. We will be
ground-bound for the rest of the year.

It's not entirely great to be back.

%\end{document}

