%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2019/11/08/trey-and-kate-review/}{Trey and Kate: Review}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{Trey and Kate: Review}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 08 Nov 2019 22:00:43}
\vspace{6pt}

%\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1687011508/ref=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout?ie=UTF8\&tag=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout-20\&linkCode=as2\&camp=1789\&creative=9325\&creativeASIN=1687011508\&SubscriptionId=1MGPYB6YW3HWK55XCGG2}{\includegraphics[width=2.11458in,height=3.10417in]{https://bakerjd99.files.wordpress.com/2019/11/trey-and-kate.jpg}}

\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
\centering
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1687011508/ref=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout?ie=UTF8\&tag=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout-20\&linkCode=as2\&camp=1789\&creative=9325\&creativeASIN=1687011508\&SubscriptionId=1MGPYB6YW3HWK55XCGG2}{\includegraphics[width=0.24\textwidth]{trey-and-kate.jpg}}
%\caption{}
\label{fig:5625x0}
\end{floatingfigure}

This will be a completely biased review. I will exhibit all the balance
and somber reflection of a butthurt CNN fake news hack being
``objective'' about Trump. In other words none!

Why?

I have a close genetic relationship with the author. So close that I see
myself in some of \emph{Trey and Kate's} characters. I won't spell it
out for you but if you read
\emph{\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1687011508/ref=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout?ie=UTF8\&tag=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout-20\&linkCode=as2\&camp=1789\&creative=9325\&creativeASIN=1687011508\&SubscriptionId=1MGPYB6YW3HWK55XCGG2}{Trey
and Kate}} you'll figure it out. Given this affinity everything I say
must be verified; so buy the book, read it, and make up your mind.

\emph{Trey and Kate} is a tale about an on and off again Millennial
romance that plays out in Kingston Ontario. The two leads are not
exactly star crossed lovers. They're both partly broken and struggling
with mental illness, past life hallucinations, deficient friends, and
uncomprehending divorced families. Kate is bipolar and goes on and off
her meds throughout. Trey is stuck in a dead-end barista job: remember
Millennials. He's mourning a deceased unloving father and has only two
reliable relationships: his cat and his mother. Trey and Kate's dreams
hint at a shared past and promise a joint future but offer little
practical guidance.

With destiny seemingly on their side, you would expect their romance to
go smoothly; it does not. When Kate goes off her meds she's impulsive
and prone to risky behavior. The book's best passages detail her sordid
bouts of random sex with total strangers. It's almost prostitution but
Kate doesn't have the business sense of a prostitute. Of course, this
doesn't help her relationship with Trey. To his credit or shame, he
forgives her but we're not sure if his forgiveness is self-pity. Trey's
self-esteem is so low he finds it almost comical than any woman could
love him. Welcome to the club Trey, \emph{bitches be mysterious.} Trey
and Kate's interaction is both frustrating, satisfying, embarrassing,
irritating and fulfilling.

\emph{Trey and Kate} is the author's first book. I know the author
struggled to put the book together. Its best parts are purely
descriptive. When the author shows us what the characters are seeing and
feeling the prose tells. When the text ventures into rhetorical
semi-poetic asides it hollows out. \emph{Trey and Kate} feels like a
screenplay disguised as a novel.~ This is partly due to the almost
cinematic presence of the setting Kingston Ontario, a dull stone-filled
town that would be unlivable without Lake Ontario, and Kingston's
weather which is every bit as bad as its portrayed in \emph{Trey and
Kate}. I'd encourage the author to keep writing, rewriting and
experimenting. There are good stories to tell here.



%\end{document}

