%\input{bmamble.tex}

\subsection*{\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/09/07/what-is-required-print-captions-on-the-back-of-photographs/}{What is Required: Print Captions on the back of Photographs}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{subsection}{What is Required: Print Captions on the back of Photographs}


\noindent\emph{Posted: 07 Sep 2015 20:14:52}
\vspace{6pt}

\captionsetup[figure]{labelformat=empty}
\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.50\textwidth]{captionsuggestion1.jpg}
\label{fig:5162X0}
\end{figure}

I am tired of waiting for ``the market'' to exploit painfully obvious
opportunities so I will now provide guidance, in the form of
\emph{milliblog} entries, that tell our less imaginative entrepreneurs
just what some of us would buy if we could.

\medskip

Here's a deep request. \emph{How about printing captions on the back of
photographs?}

\medskip

I just went through the excruciating ordeal of ordering about one
hundred prints from \href{https://www.smugmug.com/}{SmugMug}. SmugMug
prints meet my high standards but their online ordering software is
clunky and clearly geared toward very small print runs. If you have
hundreds of pictures, of varying and custom sizes, the software will
punish you. The obvious steps of setting a paper type, selecting all
your images, and then letting the software work out the paper size from
image aspect ratio is not available. You must go image by image setting
one easily derived parameter after another. I would print a lot more if
it wasn't such a frigging chore.

As annoying as SmugMug print-ordering is at least I get the prints I
want with one major exception. If you check out
\href{https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/}{my online photographs} you'll
see I use captions like \emph{nanoblog} entries. Many people have told
me they really like my captions. One of my pet peeves is unlabeled
photographs. I have wonderful hundred-year-old photographs of elegantly
posed complete strangers because \emph{nobody left a clue on the back}.

\medskip

\textbf{So, in addition to printing timestamps and file names on the
back of photographs, include captions as well!}

\medskip

\emph{P.S. It takes about five years for the market to meet my obvious
requirements; don't hold your breath.}

%\href{https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/09/07/what-is-required-print-captions-on-the-back-of-photographs/pondering-the-menu-at-smokin-2/}{\includegraphics{captionsuggestion1.jpg}}


%\captionsetup[floatingfigure]{labelformat=empty}
%\begin{figure}[htbp]
%\begin{floatingfigure}[l]{0.25\textwidth}
%\centering
%\includegraphics[width=0.23\textwidth]{captionsuggestion1.jpg}
%\caption{~~~IMCAPTION~~~}
%\label{fig:5162X0}
%\end{floatingfigure}
%\end{figure}



%\end{document}