
[A Call for Mandatory Universal Mind Broadcasting](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2023/05/14/a-call-for-mandatory-universal-mind-broadcasting/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 14 May 2023 18:03:13*

Recently [AI has been applied to decoding MRI brain
scans](https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2023/05/01/1173045261/a-decoder-that-uses-brain-scans-to-know-what-you-mean-mostly).
The researchers claim that it's possible to reconstruct parts of what
the scanned subjects are "thinking or seeing." Despite a laundry list of
caveats, and the tentative limited nature of these claims, the
*misleadia* jumped all over this and declared, with bed-wetting urgency,
that the age of mind reading has arrived.

As I write, hysterical Karens and obese Chads, the world over, are
already convening EUish panels to call for international mental privacy
and brain scanning laws. This is so damn predictable. EUish regulating
creatures have carved out a cushy living with holier than thou cajoling,
nudging, lecturing, censoring, canceling, and prosecuting those that
think differently. The idea that all our thoughts might get out there
must terrify these timid souls because they, and everyone else, know
that public thought is only a tiny portion of what's lurking in our dark
twisted cortexes.

On the inside, we have no limits. I've imagined burning this universe
down to quarks while dancing to the horrid screams of everything thing
in it dying. But that's only me! No doubt you've incubated your own
private apocalypses. It's ok, we all do it; even the EUish regulators.
If you don't harbor dark holes, you're not sentient. Thinking beings
shouldn't fear their dark holes because a big part of any creative act
is shining a light in them. There are treasures down there and you need
only look.

You, and the EUish creatures, fear mind reading because you've been
brought up on a steady stream of sci-fi comic book fantasies that depict
mind readers as evil and dangerous villains. We are so used to
authoritarian supervillains reading our minds and cackling over our
imminent demise that it never occurs to us that mind readers might be
used in other ways. No, it's always a thuggish government reading
citizen minds in a never-ending quest for wrong think. It's always an
IRS, enhanced with mind-reading technology, going full forensic audit on
our cowering asses. All these fantasies have one thing in common. Only a
select few are granted the right to read minds; everyone else is a
"book." The "books" (chumps) never get to read overlord minds, or tax
auditor minds, or EUish regulator minds. To which I ask, "Why not?"

If reliable mind readers are, like the bed-wetter's fear, imminent, one
thing is certain; they will not be suppressed or only used by
*responsible authorities*. The EUish regulators can pass all the
well-intentioned woke laws they want, but if real power and real money
are up for grabs, and only a few bed-wetter laws stand in the way, what
do you think will happen?

People will break the law.

We have laws forbidding theft, robbery, and murder, but do we live in a
theft, robbery, and murder-free world? Reliable mind readers will be so
unbelievably useful to anyone seeking straight answers that they will be
obtained by any means necessary. Attempts to control mind-reading
technology will only create another billion-dollar black market.
*Overwhelming demand always overpowers legalities.* If it's possible to
build mind readers, motivated actors will obtain and use them whether
legally or not. So, are we doomed to a mind-reading dystopia where every
thug-state or powerful asshole can read us at will?

I say no. Imagine a world where every individual has a mind reader
implanted in their skull, constantly ensuring their online presence.
Imagine these readers transmit our thoughts to the Internet, where they
are meticulously cataloged, indexed, and hashed for public access.
Imagine going "off mind" (attempting to conceal your thoughts) is
considered the rudest and most despicable act possible. Imagine "off
minders" being hunted for sport, thrown in prison, or burned at the
stake for daring to hide their thoughts. In this mandatory mind-reading
society, everyone's mind becomes a forever open book. It is no longer
possible to lie, scam, deceive, or manipulate people.

This is going to be very inconvenient for our corrupt political classes.
I don't know about you, but I'd be perfectly happy broadcasting my lurid
sexual fantasies, squeamish insecurities, petty grievances, unfiltered
opinions, harsh judgments, and my general overall stupefied inner self,
to live in a world without lies. So, if it's possible to build mind
readers. let's make them mandatory.
