
[A Memo to the
next Murdering Dorner](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/02/14/a-memo-to-the-next-murdering-dorner/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 15 Feb 2013 04:34:36*

No doubt you’ve been following the breathless [media
swooning](http://patdollard.com/2013/02/chris-matthews-heaps-praise-on-chris-dorner-returning-favor/)
about [Christopher
Dorner](http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2013/02/14/how-christopher-dorner-went-down.html)
and his
[Djangoistic](http://www.mediaite.com/tv/cnn-panelists-dorners-exciting-rampage-like-watching-django-exact-revenge-for-police-brutality/),
fight the power, murder spree, and you’re wondering if *you* should take
up arms against a sea of troubles and go off some bystanders. Before
loading up your assault weapons, making suspiciously large purchases of
plant food and diesel oil, or enrolling in flight, but not *landing*
classes, I’d like to take a few moments of your busy pre-murder spree
day and try to convince you to up your game. Let’s face it, walking into
a kindergarten and shooting up a classroom of tiny nobodies, while
undoubtedly good target practice, means nothing in the great sweep of
history. Nobody, *except the nobodies,* cares about the death of
nobodies. Sorry, I didn’t make the world; I just live here pointing out
the absurdities. To seize the long-lasting historical notoriety, you so
insanely crave, you have to eliminate people who matter. It sounds
simple, but here’s the nasty truth: removing people who matter is hard
and dangerous work. It requires talent, dedication, planning and
foresight: qualities that pathetic psychopaths, like you, often lack.

Still not convinced? Let’s run a little “thought experiment.” A major
lament of would be terminators, and just about anyone else on this
planet, is that it seems *absolutely impossible to fix utterly fixable
problems.* It doesn’t really matter what the problem is. How about peace
in the Middle East? We’re constantly told that this is a big hard
problem. What utter hogwash, formal group theory poses big hard
problems; mathematicians wouldn’t even snort “trivial” when faced with a
pedestrian and irritating nuisance like Middle Eastern peace. All that’s
required is a few simple peace treaties, a routine exchange of Jewish
and Muslim embassies, a state for the Palestinians and boom, instant
peace. How about Korean unification? Same old, same old, a formal peace
treaty followed by some judicious mine clearing and wire clipping. If
the Germans can do it — so can the Koreans. On a domestic note: how
about balancing the goddamn US federal budget? This barely rises to the
level of “problem.” Any idiot familiar with addition and subtraction is
capable of wielding the awesome technology required to match spending
with income. So my poor homicidal friend what exactly is the problem?

If you guessed “people” give yourself a big hug. While it’s true these
so-called difficult problems are, when stripped of bullshit,
embarrassingly trivial, it’s also true that solving any one of them
would inconvenience certain people. If you’re a [fat little Korean
boy-king](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/picturegalleries/worldnews/9429104/North-Koreas-leader-Kim-Jong-un-and-his-wife-Ri-Sol-ju.html)
happily banging hotties in your Commie dynasty palace the prospects of
being just a fat little boy banging, well nobody, lacks appeal. If
you’re a [corrupt Saudi
prince-thing](http://abcnews.go.com/2020/News/story?id=169246\&page=2)
used to blaming conniving Zionists for all your screw-ups the lack of
conniving Zionists would present difficulties. Similarly, how can you be
expected to run for Congress, or the Presidency, without making
expensive grandiose promises with other people’s money? One man’s
intractable problem is another man’s livelihood.

Getting back to our thought experiment: suppose there was a limited
supply of *magic brain bombs.* A magic brain bomb can beam into the
skull of anyone, at anytime, anywhere on the planet. Once beamed in the
brain bomb swells, inducing a bout of excruciating pain, and then
explodes, thus ending the miserable life of its target, and because it’s
magic, nobody can hide or escape from it. You can hunker down in your
bunker, hide in a submarine under the ice, melt into the crowd, or
surround yourself with a division of secret service agents; it won’t
matter! The magic brain bomb will beam in and end you. Obviously, magic
brain bombs are potent weapons. If some murderous nut, that’s where you
come in, could get ahold of a thousand magic brain bombs many of our
difficult problems could be blown away.

Let’s start with Middle Eastern peace. From a masked IP address open a
new Twitter account, don’t use your real name, and send a few tweets
demanding that Abdullah, Ahmadinejad, Morsi, Netanyahu and so on meet to
establish diplomatic relations and negotiate a real Middle Eastern peace
treaty. Make it clear that you will *blow up their heads* at the stroke
of noon (UTC) on a particular day if they fail to comply. Don’t expect
anyone to pay attention. Twitter is awash in [impotent death
threats.](http://www.nbcnews.com/technology/technolog/justin-bieber-army-fills-twitter-death-threats-again-125690)
You cannot even take a [sip of
water](http://www.myfoxdetroit.com/story/21141805/rubios-water-break) on
national TV without attracting them. Bide your time until the noted hour
and then detonate your brain bombs. After they scrape the charred brain
tissue off the walls of government offices in Riyadh, Tehran, Cairo,
Jerusalem and elsewhere you’ll see a new attitude in the Middle East. It
will be ugly at first. Clearly this is the work of the Jews, or the CIA,
or Jews in the CIA, maybe those meddling Chinese Commies did it, perhaps
black helicopters and UFOS were involved. Let the craziness subside
then, from another place, and on another masked IP address, start a new
Facebook account, again, don’t use your real name, and remind the *new*
Middle Eastern rulers of their predecessors failure to meet and hammer
out a peace treaty. Then, repeat your demand and warn your audience that
you will blow up their heads at noon (UTC) on a particular day if they
fail to comply. I’m guessing that by the time you’ve detonated less than
a hundred brain bombs you’ll find an astonishing, hitherto unknown,
willingness to compromise and live in the peace in the Middle East. It
might take even fewer brain bombs to fix Korea and balance the goddamn
US budget. Deleting the right people, in the right way, at the right
time can work wonders.

Brain bombs in wise hands could turn shit hole Earth into something of
an Eden. Unfortunately, this is just a thought experiment, even the CIA,
or the Jews, or the Jewish aliens in the UFOS, don’t have magic freaking
brain bombs! For the skeptically impaired: anything with *magic* in it
is either a fraud or imaginary. Regardless of the existential status of
magic brain bombs I think my point is clear. *Killing nobodies is a
waste of ammunition!* To precipitate change we can believe in you need
to go big! How big is entirely up to you. Here’s one last cautionary
note. Going after hard targets is not like waltzing into gun free zones
and opening fire. The people most in need of brain bombs are surrounded
by others that shoot back. You’re probably going to die taking down a
king, but you were going to die taking down a [Burger
King](http://forum.prisonplanet.com/index.php?topic=95261.0;wap2), so you
might as well up your game and [make a difference](http://www.aboundlessworld.com/why-most-movements-are-bullshit-and-how-to-actually-make-a-difference/). [Do it for the
children!](http://imgur.com/Ph5dE) The only question is; are you psycho
enough for the job?
