 
[American Star Chamber creates Foreign Passport Business Opportunity](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/07/23/american-star-chamber-creates-foreign-passport-business-opportunity/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 24 Jul 2015 03:28:49*

Good news citizens: the putrid rogue intellects in Washington D.C. have
created a brand [new shiny Star
Chamber.](http://dailyreckoning.com/u-s-war-on-your-passport-continues/)
What’s a Star Chamber you ask? It’s basically a secret kangaroo court.
The US system of *injustice* already employs an alphabet soup of Star
Chambers. Perhaps you’ve heard of
[FISA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Foreign_Intelligence_Surveillance_Court)
and its outstanding work of rubber stamping the surveillance of
dangerous American citizens – oops terrorists. Well, I’m happy to
report, that the self-aggrandizing assholes that drool us are no longer
content with [monitoring our terrorist naughty
bits](http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-25118156); now they’re going
for what they covet most: our money.

The new Star Chamber law plugs an egregious hole that citizens – oops
terrorists – have mercilessly exploited in the past. You see, when an
American – oops terrorist – determines that residing in the US and
maintaining American citizenship is no longer worth it, said American
could simply gather up his holdings, leave the country, and renounce his
citizenship. Remember [Eduardo
Saverin](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/huff-wires/20120515/as-facebook-saverin-singapore/)?
He was a cofounder of Facebook who did a little arithmetic and figured
out that dumping his US citizenship would save him many millions of tax
dollars. Eduardo did what any intelligent human being would do. He
analyzed the cost-benefit ratio of his citizenship and made the correct
financial decision.

Of course the entire financial position of the US government is
predicated on making sure that citizens do not get in the habit of
making such cost-benefit analyzes. In the past the old tropes of
patriotism, honor, giving back, national pride, and so forth kept many
of us from firing up our computers but that’s the past. This is the age
of hope and change. And many little Eduardo’s hope to get out of here
with some of their change!

The years of hope and change have led to ever [increasing number of
Americans fleeing the
country.](http://www.forbes.com/sites/robertwood/2015/02/11/thousands-renounce-u-s-citizenship-hitting-new-record-not-just-over-taxes/)
It’s only a trickle now but wait until [Pussydent
Hildabeast](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/15/pussydent-hildabeast/)
takes over. The trickle will turn into a flood and that’s a problem
because without taxpayers how will Pussydent Hildabeast pay off her
cronies, reward her allies, and punish her enemies? It takes a lot of
money to bribe – oops run – government.

Fortunately, the new Star Chamber fixes the exile problem. Under the new
regime, if the *government thinks you owe them back taxes*[^5115a] they can
refuse to issue you a passport. You’re a flight risk you ungrateful
terrorist – oops citizen – scum. It gets better! If the government
thinks you’re aiding foreign terrorists they can also refuse to issue
you a passport. Of course, what constitutes “aiding foreign terrorists”
is completely unspecified. Better not send any *attaboy* ISIS tweets,
they might be construed as “aiding foreign terrorists.” And, because we
are so hope and changey these days, if you dare ask why the government
thinks you are aiding terrorists this shiny new law allows them to
withhold evidence because: terrorists! Due process is so white
privilege! With such an idiotic and oppressive law in place, it’s just a
matter of time before the US harbors thousands of internal tax and
terrorist aiding exiles. They’ll be joining a larger cohort of hundreds
of thousands of [former American drug offense
prisoners](http://criminal-law.freeadvice.com/criminal-law/criminal-law/obtaining-passport-criminal-record.htm)
that are also, oddly enough, frequently denied US passports.

This is all good news! What the morons in Washington have created is a
gigantic business opportunity for any country that will issue Americans
passports for cash. If you don’t already have another passport contrive
to get one as soon as possible! You really don’t want to be imprisoned
here if you run afoul of our increasing fascist authorities.

[^5115a]: Of course the IRS never incorrectly assesses a citizen’s – oops
    terrorist’s – taxes.
