 
[Anathem: Plato’s Parallel World](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/02/20/anathem-platos-parallel-world/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 21 Feb 2011 01:02:08*

About the best thing anyone can do for you is to suggest a *good book.*
When I was in my teens my aunt pointed me at Tolkien: a shrewd call. I
was at the perfect age for a romp in Middle Earth. In the 1990’s a
consulting client introduced me to [Neal
Stephenson](https://www.nealstephenson.com/). I started with [Snow
Crash](https://www.amazon.com/Snow-Crash-Bantam-Spectra-Book/dp/0553380958)
and Hiro Protagonist. How can you not love a character named Hiro
Protagonist? I went on to [The Diamond
Age](https://www.amazon.com/Diamond-Age-Neal-Stephenson/dp/0553573314),
[Cryptonomicon](https://www.amazon.com/Cryptonomicon-Neal-Stephenson/dp/0380973464),
(Stephenson’s best work), [The Baroque
Cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The\_Baroque\_Cycle) and now
[Anathem](https://www.amazon.com/Anathem-Neal-Stephenson/dp/0061474096).

All authors get in ruts. Since Cryptonomicon Stephenson has been in a
*books about very smart characters rut.* Fictional intelligent
characters, particularly software types, scientists, mathematicians and
so forth are often cut from the same cloth. This is why [The Big Bang
Theory](https://www.cbs.com/primetime/big\_bang\_theory/) works! This is
not a literary flaw! Speaking as a bona fide software type I can assure
you that smart tech types *are* alike. Logic drives capable minds down
adjacent roads. The history of mathematics and science is littered with
tales of brilliant individuals independently coming up with similar, if
not identical, ideas. It’s almost as if mathematical ideas exist
*outside* the minds that *discover* them. This is one of the major
themes of Anathem.

The world of Anathem is Arbre. Arbre is eerily similar to Earth. Arbre
is [Goldilocking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Habitable\_zone) around a
Sun like star. It has a moon, large oceans, a “nitrogen oxygen”
atmosphere and even enjoys plate tectonics. Plate tectonics is probably
not that common for Earth sized rocky worlds. The Earth lucked out
because a large chunk of the Earth’s crust is orbiting us in the form of
the Moon. Venus wasn’t so lucky, or unlucky, depending on how you feel
about [crust stripping planetary
impacts](https://www.lpl.arizona.edu/outreach/origin/). Arbre is also
inhabited by “people” that could be our neighbors.

Arbre’s history seems a few thousand years longer than ours; they’ve
repeatedly wreaked their planet with catastrophes like ethnic pogroms,
global warming and nuclear war; things we’re only working on. Stephenson
works his magic building up Arbre in our imaginations. The result is a
solid real world. I applaud the authors achievement. Arbre, like Dune
and Middle Earth, will stick with you.

There are big cultural differences between Arbre and Earth. On Arbre
society divides into the Secular and Mathic worlds. Arbre’s secular
world is familiar. It has brain-dead TV, (just like MSNBC), highways,
gas stations, suburbs, tacky tourists, wacko religious cults and even
big box stores — *they’re not called Arbre-Marts.* It’s the Mathic world
that needs elaboration.

The Mathic world consists of a large number of walled, self isolated
institutions called maths. The maths are populated by avout. A math is a
cross between an Earth monastery, university and scientific society.
Each math voluntarily cuts itself off from the secular world on one,
ten, hundred and thousand-year cycles. Our [preening public
intellectuals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul\_Krugman) might see
themselves as avout. They flatter themselves. The avout have all taken a
vow of material poverty. They are allowed three possessions. There are
no [tenured Mercedes driving
poseurs](https://www.canadafreepress.com/index.php/article/32367) among
the avout. Stephenson makes it clear that not all avout are
intellectually gifted or suited for a life of the mind. Many of them
become gardeners. If only our [second raters](https://www.algore.com/)
did the same.

Stephenson devotes many pages to the details of mathic life. We learn
about their rituals, clock winding is central, they’re distinct
philosophical orders, avout fashion trends, (challenging with only two
articles of clothing), their diet and sex lives. By the time Stephenson
is ready to release the avout you feel like you’ve been holed up in a
math. I won’t ruin Anathem by summarizing. Let’s just say that a young
Frau Erasmas and many of his friends and mentors will suddenly find
themselves outside the gates of their math to deal with a historic
emergency. After the avout leave the maths it’s a great ride: very much
in the mold of the Waterhouse’s adventures in Cryptonomicon and The
Baroque Cycle. Along the way Stephenson wows us with countless
philosophical allusions and micro *in-plot* seminars. Remember, the at
large avout are uniformly brilliant; they’re not going to chat about
reality TV. Imagine Plato as a Kung Fu star. Between ass-kickings the
characters calmly entertain ideas like Plato’s world of pure
mathematical forms, (known as the Hylaen Theoric World on Arbre), is an
actual parallel quantum cosmos that somehow leaks information into
receptive minds in “neighboring” cosmii. Somehow Stephenson makes these
lectures riveting.

Anathem is excellent on many levels but one flaw bars it from the
pantheon of great books. *The characters are insufficiently distinct.*
You can tell them apart when absorbed by the novel but they quickly
merge into each other. Smart tech types share many *correct* ideas but
they do not share the same character. Read [Brighter than a Thousand
Suns](https://www.amazon.com/Brighter-than-Thousand-Suns-Scientists/dp/0156141507)
there is no mistaking Oppenheimer for Bohr, or Fermi, or Von Neumann, or
Teller. In the real world brilliance exaggerates character. Stephenson
exploited this in Cyptonomicon and The Baroque Cycle by casting the very
real Turing, Newton and Leibniz as characters. Anathem is not a Dickens
novel. There are no Scrooge’s, Pip’s, or Miss Havisham’s, characters
that live outside their novels, running around. I fear that it is not
even an Ayn Rand novel. [Altas
Shrugged](https://www.amazon.com/Atlas-Shrugged-Ayn-Rand/dp/0451191145)
is a pondering pretentious beast of a book and Ayn Rand couldn’t sharpen
Neal Stephenson’s pencils but here I am, almost thirty years after
reading Atlas Shrugged, recalling Dagny Taggart, Hank Rearden and John
Galt right off the top of my head. Read Anathem for the world, the ideas
and the great ride but if you’re looking for memorable characters stick
with Hiro Protagonist.
