
[A Note on the Writer's Strike](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2023/05/25/a-note-on-the-writers-strike/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 25 May 2023 17:21:53*

For the last few weeks, the Hollywood [writers have been on
strike](https://parade.com/entertainment/2023-wga-writers-strike). I
won't bore you with the details. Like all strikes it boils down to
money. The writers feel they aren't getting what's owed to them, and the
production companies want to hold onto as much sweet moola as possible.
Normally I'm indifferent to strikes, but in this case, I am urging both
sides to fight to the death. The writers shouldn't give up a single
commie cent and the production companies should drive the most rapacious
bargain possible. If things go my way both sides lose and the entire
industry self-destructs.

I know what's lurking in your teeny tiny brain. How could I be so cruel?
How could I drool at the prospect of media creatures losing their silly
little jobs?

It's easy. The current entertainment industry is a garbage industry. *A
garbage industry is one that we would be better off without.*[^7858x1]
Garbage industries are depressingly common in the modern world.
*Facebook,* (now *Meta*), is garbage. *Twitter* is garbage. *TikTok,
Instagram*, and all their wannabes are garbage. Fast food restaurants
are garbage. Cable TV is garbage. Cosmetics are garbage. Vast swaths of
the processed food and pharmaceutical industries are garbage. Many
insurance companies are garbage. The fashion industry is garbage. The
diet industry, (please people get some self-respect), is a steaming pile
of garbage. I could go on and on because we live in a wasteland people
and not the wholesome T. S. Eliot version.

Suppose the Hollywood writers and their employers go away, and we're
faced with a world without media company entertainment. How could we
possibly live in such a world? Easily. The crap Hollywood spews,
union-made, or not, is easily replaced by good books; we all have long
lists of *actual classics* to read. And, if reading isn't your jam,
there's YouTube. None of my favorite Youtubers are affected by this
strike, [Sabine
Hossenfelder](https://www.youtube.com/c/SabineHossenfelder/videos), [Dr.
Becky](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYNbYGl89UUowy8oXkipC-Q),
[Economics
Explained](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZ4AMrDcNrfy3X6nsU8-rPg),
[Mathematical Visual
Proofs,](https://www.youtube.com/c/MicroVisualProofs) and many, many,
more are still cranking out superb content that outclasses the
dumbed-down-drivel the *Hollyweirdos* foist on us. I observed many years
ago that the best bloggers are better writers, and cover more
interesting topics, than mainstream journalists, and the same holds for
the best YouTubers. That small talented and dedicated producers can do a
better job than bloated self-satisfied billion-dollar companies may be
shocking but look at the work. To paraphrase Flaubert, "The company is
nothing, the product --- all."

If you are left with any doubts, I'm enjoying this strike. It has driven
all the smug late-night clowns off the air; their minuscule minds cannot
function without scripts. On my own, I wouldn't waste a millisecond on
the likes of Colbert, Kimmel, Meyers, and others but my wife enjoys
their attempts at humor, so I'm occasionally exposed to their asinine
Youtubery[^7858x2] while sitting with her in the evenings. Silence is a
lovely substitute for late-night. With luck, they will never come back.

[^7858x1]: Ironically the people that pick up your curbside trash are not
    running a *garbage industry*. They are providing a much-needed
    service and when trash collectors go on strike, we all miss them.

[^7858x2]: Nobody of any consequence stays up to watch late-night anymore.
    That time is thankfully over.
