
[A Note Regarding the Contents of the Total Library](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/05/22/a-note-regarding-the-contents-of-the-total-library/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 22 May 2024 21:30:38*

In Jorge Luis Borges's 1939 essay *The Total Library,* we catch our
first glimpse of the [*Library of Babel*](https://libraryofbabel.info/).
Borges, like many writers and artists, kept revisiting favorite themes.
*The Total Library* of 1939 is best considered a *Library of Babel*
construction site. The foundation crews are busy excavating whatever
esoteric material will support the library, and the future librarians
are engaged in collecting and indexing the books that will fill the
seemingly endless shelves of the *Library of Babel*.

In this same 1939 essay, Borges mentions that you will find valid proofs
of Fermat's Last Theorem in the vast combinatoric universe of the *Total
Library*. In 1939, Fermat's Last Theorem was a conjecture. Andrew Wiles
found the first proof in 1995. Borges got lucky. Fermat's Last Theorem
turned out to be a *theorem*. And yes, Wiles' 1995 proof and gazillions
of alternate proofs are indeed somewhere in the *Total Library*. What
would have happened if Fermat's Last Theorem was invalid? For example,
Thomas Hobbes and John Wallis engaged in a multi-decade 17th-century
feud over squaring the circle. Squaring the circle is an ancient problem
in Euclidean Geometry. The problem is simple to state. Construct a
square with exactly the same area as a given circle using only the
classic tools of an unmarked straightedge and compass. In perhaps the
most erudite and steadfast display of cranky hubris in history, Hobbes
put out one invalid circle squaring proof after another that Wallis
gleefully eviscerated in that delightful 17th-century warring pamphlet
style. Circle squaring is impossible. When Hobbes and Wallis were
squabbling, the problem was still open; it wasn't shown to be impossible
until the 19^th^ century, long after both men had died.

However, the question remains: Will Hobbesian-style circle quadrature
proofs exist in the *Total Library*?

We will find many invalid Hobbesian quadrature proofs. We will also find
all of Wallis's commentaries that point out exactly where Hobbes screwed
the geometric pooch in each one. We will also find every other
crank-created circle quadrature and innumerable refutations thereof.
Broadening our search, we will find this humble blog post. And you, dear
reader, if you kindly comment, your comment will be in the *Total
Library,* too. But, in the vast universe of *Total Library* gibberish,
we won't find a single valid circle-squaring proof. *Mathematical
impossibility is absolute. It even rules in imaginary realms.* So, the
*Total Library* is not quite total; it cannot contain what does not
exist.
