 
[A Peculiar Book Club](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/07/02/a-peculiar-book-club/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 02 Jul 2011 20:23:48*

While holed up in a rehabilitation hospital recovering from a nasty fall
a coworker invited me to a noon-hour Bible study group. The group
conveniently met in my rehab hospital so I rolled upstairs in my
wheelchair and started attending their meetings. When I told my wife
about this peculiar book club she thought I was suffering from post
traumatic shock or had lost my mind. It’s not that dramatic! I’m a
[hard-ass
skeptic](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/29/hard-ass-skeptic-rules/)
but I enjoy reading religious and mythical texts. I’ve plowed though
vast swaths of the Bible, the Koran, the Bhagavad Gita, the Iliad,
Beowulf, the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Egyptian Book of the Dead. I,
like many atheists and agnostics, know far [more about these works than
believers might
expect](https://articles.latimes.com/2010/sep/28/nation/la-na-religion-survey-20100928)
and consider them jewels of world literature. The Bible, the Koran and
the Bhagavad Gita are still taken seriously while the greek gods of the
Iliad and deities like Osiris in the Book of the Dead are no longer
worshiped! [Emerson](https://www.emersoncentral.com/poems/index.htm) said
it best, *“The religion of one age is the literary entertainment of the
next.”* Once you accept the view that the Bible is literature you can
relax and enjoy the fabulous tales it spins. If, on the other hand, you
believe you are reading “inerrant scripture” then you’re in for a world
of logical hurt!

When I was younger I argued with believers, mostly Mormons in Utah and
Muslims in southern Iran and northern Ghana, that only allegorical
interpretations of the Bible or Koran made sense. A literal view forces
you into never-ending and [embarrassing conflict with
science](https://christiananswers.net/q-aig/aig-c005.html) and violent
clashes with other believers. You would think after millennia of
religious warfare we would catch on. You cannot simultaneously be a good
Hindu and Christian. Something has to give; *they both cannot be true
but they both can be false!* Believers are aware of these problems but
most pull back from logically analyzing their positions. They
instinctively know where analysis leads: myth will not hold. In the long
run Allah and Jehovah will share Osiris’s and Apollo’s fate.

This is not a view I will be advocating in my peculiar book club. I am
content to let others enjoy their beliefs as long as they have no
material impact on me! Atheists that constantly scream about “under god”
in the pledge of allegiance or “in god we trust” on the dollar annoy me!
Hypothetical entities are far less tiresome than [shrieking
banshees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9gRLR3W8Ons). If the term “God”
irritates you substitute “Santa Claus.” As for militant believers of all
creeds: we have a problem! The separation of church and state is one of
the deepest and greatest things about the United States. It protects all
of us from our mutual idiocies. I have no problems with people erecting,
*[on their own
dime](https://www.secularnewsdaily.com/2010/11/10/obama-administration-taxpayers-lack-standing-in-tax-subsidized-religion-cases/)*,
plaques emblazoned with the Ten Commandments but it annoys me that
religious institutions enjoy special tax status. Go to your mosques,
churches and temples but pay your damn taxes!
