 
[Apocalypse Never or I Told You So Day](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/12/21/apocalypse-never-or-i-told-you-so-day/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 21 Dec 2012 16:45:49*

Let’s begin with an apology to the Mayan’s. There’s not a whit of
verified historical evidence that the ancient Mayans predicted the end
of the world or that they were any more upset about cycles in their
calendars than we are in ours. Modern Mayans repeatedly [pointed this
out](https://boingboing.net/2009/10/13/what-actual-mayans-a.html) but
arguing with new age morons, schizophrenic doom mongers and pure
outright rapacious hucksters is a thankless task. Crazy ideas are easy
to market. Just look at who we vote for, the consumer crap that fills
our homes, the twaddle that we ludicrously label news and the sheer
reams of reason suffocating rubbish that infuses the very core of our
increasingly derelict civilization. Believe me; I completely understand
the hygienic appeal of apocalypse. A clean, moron free, slate: oh what a
glorious day that would be!

Well, it’s not the end of the world but it’s still a glorious day
because the day after the world ends is when skeptics celebrate global
***I told You So Day**.* On I told you so day sane and rational people
get to rub it in and remind delusional nitwits everywhere that they’ve
been suckered again. My only regret is I told you so day requires a
degree of sanity among the insane. Anyone that fell for Mayan doomsday
drivel is now rapidly forgetting it and the very craziness that abetted
the belief is now rapidly erasing it. Genuinely crazy people aren’t
rational enough to recognize their errors making them poor I told you so
targets. As for hucksters: they’re already working the next scam.
Skeptics just [can’t get no
satisfaction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lx0bLBk-BNM)!
