
[At the Palliative
Care Ward](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/04/22/at-the-palliative-care-ward/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 23 Apr 2013 02:36:54*

Visiting hospitals is almost as tiring as staying in them. For the last
few days my siblings and I have taken turns spending the night with our
mother in the Bozeman Deaconess’s palliative care ward. She is
terminally ill and doesn’t want to be alone. Keeping her company is
about the only thing we can do for her. I am pecking out this blog entry
on my phone while my mum sleeps. It’s her sole break these days.

About two months ago my mother was diagnosed with stage four
Glioblastoma Multiforme a nasty aggressive terminal brain cancer. I was
terribly upset when I first learned of her illness. This cancer is
utterly lethal. If it doesn’t kill you it’s because something else gets
you first. In black humor circles this cancer is called “the terminator”
and unlike Arnold’s robot this terminator cannot be crushed in a machine
press.

We’re all adjusting to this new reality in our own ways. I have been
surprised at the excessively decent behavior of my greater family, my
in-laws and even my “outlaws.” My long divorced first wife, a Canadian
physician, made the trip from eastern Canada, to help my parents. My dad
said, “that was darn decent of her,” and it was. My younger brother has
shown an ability to care for others that we never noticed before. He is
determined to see mom live as long as possible. My chaotic sister has a
very effective bedside manner. She’s been brushing my mother’s teeth and
fussing with her scarves and hair. My dad, never noted for doling out
care, is spending long hours sitting and talking with mom. My wife,
currently tied down in Toronto with her own demented mother, is more
upset about my mom than I am. Her sisters are encouraging her to let
them look after their mum so she can get west to see mine. Everyone has
shown compassion and concern. I may have to reassess my negative view of
mankind.

As for myself, I had a few teary moments when I first heard the news,
but I have recovered my phlegmatic state. Right now I am more tired than
sad. I expect to grieve and mourn soon enough. For now I will keep my
mother company and try to steal a few hours of sleep on the bench beside
her bed.
