
[Australia 
It Is](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/03/05/australia-it-is/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 06 Mar 2013 04:50:19*

I’m putting up with a little feces storm; it’s flying off the fan in all
directions.

Let’s start with work. Lately it’s been grueling. I’m coding like a mad
twenty something, wasting my weekends for the man and being very much
the good little corporate drone. I do my best to avoid crazy hours but
I’ve foolishly allowed myself to *care about the problem.* I’m kind of
surprised that in my boomer dotage I am still capable of going into deep
code: that weird state where you have dreams about iterators and
interfaces. In my feverish coding dreams I’m always one step from
nailing a problem, all that remains is a stupid little tweak, but for
the life of me I cannot see it.

Moving on: my wife and elderly demented mother-in-law have fled the US.
They’re both back in Canada where my wife is attempting to get her
mother placed in a facility that can handle her Alzheimer’s. My poor wife
has looked after her demented mother for almost two years and it’s
completely worn her down. Caring for the Alzheimer stricken elderly is
far more draining than looking after newborns. I’ve done both and
believe me babies are a breeze. And, if one demented mother-in-law
wasn’t bad enough, this week I learned my mother has a “growth” near the
speech center of her brain. We’re awaiting biopsy results so we don’t
know what the “growth” is, but brain growths are never *good news.*

We need a vacation which brings me the results of the [first ever ADND
poll.](http://polldaddy.com/poll/6805019/) I asked a simple question:
which country should we visit, Argentina or Australia? I didn’t expect
any answers but a few readers chimed in and, the last time I looked,
Australia was the winner! Until two months ago Argentina was still in
the running but it looks like
[Kirchner](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/southamerica/argentina/9890078/Argentina-dispatch-the-troubled-reign-of-Queen-Cristina-of-Argentina.html)
is a bigger economic imbecile than
[Obama](http://news.investors.com/ibd-editorials/010713-639635-obama-says-there-is-no-spending-problem.htm).
You go girl! Until the economic dust settles Argentina looks like *work*
so it’s off to Australia in the fourth quarter.

I’ve started marking places to visit. If anyone has suggestions please
drop a note.
