 
[Bankrupt Nation Wins the Olympics](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/08/12/bankrupt-nation-wins-the-olympics/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 13 Aug 2012 01:21:58*

Thanks to the all squiggling [FSM](http://www.venganza.org/) it’s
*finally* over! We, (citizens of the USA for the rest of you losers),
have triumphed! We crushed those upstart crony Chinese communists,
smothered our long-standing Russian adversaries and overwhelmed our
cocky British hosts. All that remains is to hear the sweet loser
chanting about how it’s not about medals, or countries, or even wining
and losing: what utter horseshit! *The entire obscenely overpriced
Olympic spectacle is just one giant primate chest thump.* Today we get
to pound our chests, bang the lower ranked females and crap all over the
forest floor. God I detest the Olympics.

Let’s look at the *our* triumph from another point of view. The USA is
currently running a yearly deficit of 1.27 trillion dollars. Our
acknowledged debt is 15.92 trillion dollars. Our unfunded liabilities
exceed 120.13 trillion dollars. If you want to depress yourself just
load up the [Debt Clock](http://www.usdebtclock.org/) and watch the
numbers tick inexorably up and up. In short we are completely and
thoroughly broke. Dividing the USA medal count into these numbers
yields:

1.  **Price per medal vs. yearly deficit: 12.18 billion dollars.**

2.  **Price per medal vs. acknowledged debt: 153.08 billion dollars**

3.  **Price per medal vs. unfunded liabilities: 1.15 trillion dollars.**

**Yeah, we’re big winners when it comes to piling up debt!** I’d happily
trade all our medals to balance the budget. Hell, I’d give up *all*
American medals from all Olympic games to balance the budget. Now I’m
sure many American athletes will object to this deficit reduction plan.
Perhaps with all the stress of training, surreptitious doping and
getting strangers to pee in bottles they missed the [transcendent
One’s](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKjPI6no5ng) memo: “You didn’t win
that medal, someone else won that!”
