 
[Blogging off for Christmas](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/12/23/blogging-off-for-christmas/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 23 Dec 2011 22:02:36*

I am celebrating Christmas by combining two of my favorite things: the
[programming language J](http://www.jsoftware.com/) and the superb image
editor *[Picture Window Pro](http://www.dl-c.com/).* The other day the
good folks at [Digital Light and Color](http://www.dl-c.com/) announced
64 bit versions of Picture Window Pro. I was delighted. PWP is my
favorite image editor. It’s had 16 bit image support since the cows came
home and it simply nukes Photoshop when it comes to flat-out crunching
performance. I was afraid that the good old-fashioned C programmers that
had crafted this program were retiring: perhaps overwhelmed by a sea of
mediocre consumer oriented overpriced sludge — *yes Photoshop Elements
I’m talking about you!* Fortunately it’s not to be! 64 bit multi-core
versions of PWP will dramatically extend the lifetime of PWP for this
loyal customer.

Speaking of superb good old-fashioned C programs I must give a shout out
to J. I’ve been busy preparing a talk for the up coming [J
conference](http://www.jsoftware.com/jwiki/Community/Conference2012) so
J has been on my mind more than usual. Still [all work and no play makes
J a dull boy!](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NgMdz2fe0CY) This morning
I rooted around in the J bin directories, sucked some J icons into PWP,
and then twiddled transformations to generate some Christmas J monitor
wallpaper: download and decorate at will!

[Image link: J Christmas wallpaper](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Manipulations/Image-Hacking-1/i-zfTHPnJ/0/M/jwrapping-M.png)

