
[Blood
Morons](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/14/blood-morons/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 14 Apr 2014 16:39:03*

Here we go again; *literal lunatics* are, for the zillionth time,
announcing the end of the world. What’s going to do us in this time?
Would you believe the next four lunar eclipses? Starting tonight, an
unusual*, but not rare,* sequence of four lunar eclipses begins. Some
[religious
loons](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/televangelist-claims-blood-moons-sign-world-shaking-event-article-1.1754601)
are claiming this so-called *eclipse tetrad* is a sign of the end times.
Oh, if it were only so. Imagine a world cleansed of imbeciles!
Unfortunately, as [Fred
Espenak](http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/OH/OH2014.html#tetrads) notes on
his highly regarded eclipse pages, there is nothing unusual about this
sequence of eclipses. In the last five thousand years we’ve had 142
eclipse tetrads. That’s about one world ending every thirty-five years.
Look around people; we’re still here.

It astounds me that there is still a market for such nonsense.
Astrology, and that’s all this blood moon rubbish is, has been
completely, totally, absolutely and utterly debunked. On this the
science really is settled! But, when have we ever let science get in the
way of a [good marketing opportunity](http://fourbloodmoons.net/), and
world endings are well — world ending — sales opportunities. Get your
end times before they’re gone! Running astronomical scams is easy
because large swaths of the public cannot reliably answer basic
questions like: [does the Sun go around the
Earth?](http://www.npr.org/blogs/thetwo-way/2014/02/14/277058739/1-in-4-americans-think-the-sun-goes-around-the-earth-survey-says)
Maintaining such levels of ignorance must be exhausting.

You might want to pull your head out of your blood moron ass long enough
to observe tonight’s total lunar eclipse. It starts around midnight
[here in St.
Louis](http://blog.realtimestl.com/2014/04/when-and-how-to-watch-the-lunar-eclipse-in-st-louis/)
with totality commencing around 2:00 am. I’ll be out there, St. Louis
weather permitting, shooting eclipse tracks. With proper framing eclipse
tracks make neat pictures. If what I have in mind pans out it will
constitute my next post.
