 
[2012 Business Opportunity](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/11/11/2012-business-opportunity/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 11 Nov 2009 18:23:00*

Are you an [unscrupulous deranged
crank](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard\_C.\_Hoagland) with the
track record of a government budget forecaster? Do you have [no shame
and assume everyone around you is an inbred
moron?](https://www.bennyhinn.org/default.cfm) Can you say one thing one
day and the opposite the next and see no contradiction? Do you consider
“evidence” [to be shit that you make
up](https://blogcritics.org/scitech/article/is-science-just-another-opinion/)
whenever you feel like separating fools from their money? If you
answered yes to any of these questions then you might have a bright
future as a 2012 entrepreneur.

But you have to act fast. End of the World deals [only come around every
few years.](https://www.bible.ca/pre-date-setters.htm) Seize the moment
*or you may have to wait months* before the next opportunity to scam
credulous dolts. My advice: strike while the iron is hot. After 2012 the
only people making any money on 2012 will be [sour skeptics telling us I
told you](https://www.skyandtelescope.com/news/64430612.html) so and we
all know how much that pays.

Since we have no qualms our only problem is marketing. We have to find
the right 2012 product. The field is getting crowded and we must
exercise caution. 2012 entrepreneurs welcome competition like drugged
out bike gangs welcome competition. With this in mind we have to rule
out:

1.  Movies: [2012](https://www.whowillsurvive2012.com/) opens this
    weekend and if [the critics can be
    believed](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/2012/) we now have a
    viable substitute for water boarding and [Itsy, bitsy, teenie,
    weenie, yellow polka dot
    bikini](https://www.flickr.com/photos/neloqua/294329338/) looping
    endlessly.

2.  TV specials: The [History
    Channel](https://boards.history.com/topic/History-Now/History-Channels-2012/520029478)
    has locked up this market segment with one mind draining special
    after another. If I even see the number 2012 on the History Channel
    again I will climb up the nearest Mayan pyramid and cut my own heart
    out!

3.  Survival gear: [What’s a girl to wear when the world
    ends.](https://2012base.com/Products\_and\_Merchandise/Survival\_Equipment/)
    Get your end of the world gear now before the panic, or
    intelligence, sets in.

4.  [T-Shirts: Every disaster needs
    one.](https://t-shirts.cafepress.com/2012?cmp=knc--g--us--pol--apparel--search-e--2012\_tee\_shirts\&utm\_medium=cpc\&utm\_source=google\&utm\_campaign=pol--apparel\&utm\_content=search-e\&utm\_term=2012\_tee\_shirts)

5.  [End of the World Party
    Catering:](https://www.associatedcontent.com/article/1818574/how\_to\_throw\_a\_december\_21\_2012\_end.html?cat=60)
    Annihilation on an empty stomach is so 2011.

6.  [Mayan Resort
    Holidays:](https://www.exploringlifesmysteries.com/2012-planetary-alignment)
    This one actually makes some sense. The prospect of heaping scorn on
    scores of new and old age nitwits on December 22, 2012 would warm my
    cold skeptical core.

Let’s face it breaking into the 2012 market is hard. It takes an
imaginative opportunistic whore to come up with a market worthy 2012
scam. I’m out of ideas; maybe you can do better.
