 
[Controlling Cell Phones the new IT Frontier](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/06/09/controlling-cell-phones-the-new-it-frontier/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 09 Jun 2012 17:08:31*

It won’t be long before your employer starts jamming or
[confiscating](https://newsfeed.time.com/2012/05/15/obama-campaign-bans-cell-phones-at-private-fundraisers/)
your *personal* cell phone. Wait a minute isn’t that just a tad
hyperbolic? Wouldn’t that trigger an avalanche of “freedom of speech”
lawsuits? Wouldn’t people yell “fornicate elsewhere” and quit? Ahh, if
only it were so. I would love to be wrong about this but I have a superb
track record when it comes to predicating IT control freak trends.

In my long programming career I’ve never met a “liberty loving” IT
manager. There’s something utterly intoxicating about being in a place
where reliable minions, (dead computers for the most part), completely
manifest your vision. I’ve watched the most libertarian of programmers
turn into [Dilbertian
despots](https://dilbert.com/strips/comic/2010-09-13/) when tasked with
network security, software procurement or SOX compliance. IT’s first
impulse is to control, control and control even if control is
counterproductive.

Here’s the sad news. *Most IT polices are counterproductive and they
never fix the problems they claim to address.* Consider my case. I have
never introduced a network virus, distributed proprietary company
information or collaborated with competitors. Everywhere I’ve worked had
specific IT policies for these, and other *corporate crimes*, but I
could have easily circumvented 95% of them at any time. The only defense
any of my employers ever had was *my personal honesty and integrity*.

Unfortunately my personal honesty and integrity is beyond the control of
IT and, as I have said before, [control is key when it comes to
IT](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/06/11/the-real-problem-with-enterprise-software/).
If IT cannot control it they won’t even recognize it! This is why we end
up with abominations like
[SOX](https://www.infoworld.com/d/developer-world/sarbanes-oxley-seen-biggest-it-time-waster-481)
— perhaps the must ludicrous bit of micro-managing nonsense ever foisted
on American companies. Incidentally SOX does
[SFO](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=sweet%20fuck%20all)
when it comes to preventing the Enronesque crimes it was intended to
prevent. Don’t believe me, ask [Jon Corzine about where MF’s billions
went](https://technorati.com/business/article/jon-corzine-to-be-hoisted-by/).

*Exactly where do personal cell phones fit into IT policies?* When cell
phones first appeared they were just phones. Now they’re web browsers,
cameras, microphones, stereos, GPS receivers and recently full-fledged
programming environments. So much power and all outside of IT’s control.
Most employers keep lists of banned websites. What’s the use of tasking
neutered lackeys with maintaining a list of banned websites if an
employee can whip out an iPhone and browse at will? What’s the point of
banning USB drives and locking down proprietary files if you can take a
quick snapshot of your monitor and post it on Facebook? IT has a
personal cell phone problem and I can guarantee that whatever twisted
solution their misguided minds fixate on *it will have nothing to do
with employee honesty and integrity.*
