[Cripple Chronicles
Continue](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/03/15/cripple-chronicles-continue-2/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 15 Mar 2011 23:53:21*

It’s coming up on three weeks since I fell and ripped my quadriceps. I
am now cleared for passive, gravity assisted, flexing of my knees. This
morning I managed a seventy-five degree bend. I would like to reach a
full ninety degrees before the end of the week. I suspect my days of
greater than ninety degrees are done. The next step is to get up in a
walker. I hope this is sooner rather than later. Moving my butt from bed
to wheelchair and back is wearing thin. I honestly don’t know how some
of the elderly residents here stand it. Unlike myself many of them will
be in wheelchairs until they die. Getting old isn’t for pussies!

I’m not the only one “suffering” from my freaky fall. My poor wife is
working hard bringing me meals, (hospital food did not impress her) and
pitching in with everyday invalid care. She really is the best wife in
the world.

I wish I could say the same about my insurance companies. Today we
mailed my application for short-term disability. I will qualify; mine is
a classic total temporary disability. They cannot deny coverage without
facing a slam-dunk lawsuit but they will be able to impose inflexible
rules.

For example, when I am on disability I cannot work and if I work, even a
few hours per day, I cannot collect disability. If I had Wi-Fi and my
office laptop I could put in a few remote hours even now but I cannot
manage a full schedule. I expect I will end up putting in unpaid remote
hours unless that is also forbidden. I cannot be out of circulation for
long or my little walk in the park might end in unemployment.
