 
[Election Reflections](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/11/09/election-reflections/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 09 Nov 2012 23:17:59*

About the only surprise coming out of the recent US election was [Puerto
Rico’s foolish vote to seek
statehood.](http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2012/nov/09/puerto-rico-vote-us-statehood)
*People, you don’t board the Titanic after it has hit the iceberg.* In
time Puerto Ricans will learn what Quebec separatists have already
painfully absorbed. If fence-sitting is your main tactic for extorting
favors from larger entities stay on the goddamn fence. The minute you
hop off the larger entity goes back to giving less than a crap about
you. The [new independent senator from
Maine](http://www.philly.com/philly/news/nation\_world/20121109\_Maine\_s\_senator-elect\_won\_t\_say\_which\_party\_he\_will\_back.html)
should pay attention. Nobody in the larger United States, or anywhere
else for that matter, cares a whit about Maine. It only comes up in
postcards featuring lighthouses. As a person from an even smaller state
Montana, (yes tiny Maine has more people than Montana), I am not
belittling you I’m merely pointing out that there aren’t enough of you
to tip elections one way or the other so the political establishment
will not, can not, and never will give a fresh firm shit *unless you’re
in position to extract favors.* Sending a fence-sitter to the senate is
smart politics but only if he stays on the fence! The people of Montana
weren’t smart enough to elect an independent and reelected a [garden
variety Obama
stooge.](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2012/11/07/democrat-jon-tester-wins-reelection-in-montana-senate-race/)
This only makes sense if you want to be ignored.

My Iranian born wife is a new American citizen and this was her first
presidential election. She reliably cancelled my vote so the political
establishment sucked a big goose egg out of our household. During the
interminable election I kept reading about couples fighting about their
partner’s choice. Some went so far as to “misplace” ballots and get
snotty about driving each other to the polls. In my naive, brain-dead
youth, I used to swallow, “think not what your country can do for you,
but what you can do for your country”, hogwash. I really felt that my
relationship with my country was vitally important, certainly more
important than a possibly temporary spouse. People get divorced all the
time but their countries abide. Well, not really, I’m a dual citizen; my
wife holds three citizenships. Countries matter but if you don’t value
your wife or husband more than your country you’re either in a bad
marriage or you’re a moron. In a few short years, when our [runaway
fiscal train finally jumps the
rails](http://www.hangthebankers.com/economic-collapse-is-inevitable-heres-why/)
and plunges into the abyss, a good spouse will be far more valuable than
bankrupt government social programs. For lucky bastards like me that’s
already the case.
