 
[EquiFucked](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/09/26/equifucked/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 26 Sep 2017 22:41:45*

If you have the misfortune of dealing with US Fuckancial orifice
Insertions (Financial Institutions) you’ve probably heard of the
[Equifax
hack](http://www.npr.org/2017/09/14/550949718/after-equifax-data-breach-consumers-are-largely-on-their-own).
Equifax is one of three large companies in the US that collect, without
your explicit approval, personal credit information to compute credit
scores. Your credit score is a single number that *allegedly* measures
how likely you are to pay back loans. Credit scores are no longer used
just for assessing creditworthiness. They’ve slowly become proxies for
literacy, intelligence, and honesty. In today’s USA, it is illegal in
many states to test a job applicant’s literacy or IQ. In others, you
cannot ask if they have a criminal record. Fortunately, for HR drones
everywhere, there are no laws barring credit score enquiries. Oh sure,
you can refuse to allow a potential employer to look up your score but
if you want the damn job you’re more or less forced to bend over and
enjoy a scoring.

I first met credit scores in the 1990s. After two decades of living in
Canada, I returned to the US for a job. In the early 1990s few companies
requested credit scores on job applications but if you tried to rent an
apartment the first thing they asked for was a credit score. I didn’t
have one at the time and this turned out to be a major problem. I calmly
explained that I had lived outside the US for my entire working life and
had never taken out a US loan, used a US credit card, or secured US
credit of any form. I was an alien freak, possibly dangerous, and
certainly, someone to be wary of.

My situation wasn’t unique. In the 1990s large numbers of American
immigrants, both legal and illegal didn’t have credit scores but, how
can I delicately phrase this, their predominantly dusky hues forestalled
aggressive credit score seeking by lawsuit averse bottom feeders. My hue
didn’t help. My status as an educated, articulate, white guy without a
credit score was an unfathomable anomaly to the simpletons that process
apartment applications. I eventually straightened this out but I had to
get a letter from my employer that disclosed my salary and, even then,
the simpletons had to phone my employer’s HR department to make sure I
wasn’t trying to soil a sacred one bedroom dump with my unscored person.
The entire episode pissed me off.

Who allowed large, [clearly
inept](http://www.marketwatch.com/story/equifax-ceo-hired-a-music-major-as-the-companys-chief-security-officer-2017-09-15?mod=mw_share_twitter),
credit agencies to collect detailed personal information on pretty much
every person in the US? Even worse, what bit of arcane intellectual
property law, gives credit agencies the right to apply, “proprietary” -
meaning opaque undisclosed bullshit - algorithms to their pilfered
information to compute an index that nobody outside the agencies can vet
for accuracy or relevance?  Finally, who continues to tolerate their
criminally negligent handling of sensitive data? I would be willing to
bet big bucks that the EquiFucks didn’t even encrypt the data that was
hacked.  I work with corporate databases and you would be surprised at
how often things like Social Security Numbers are stored in plaintext.
Meaning any disgruntled ITer, and there are a lot of bitter disgruntled
ITers, could easily replicate the Equifax hack.

The EquiFucks know they are in deep dodo. [Three company
executives](http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-equifax-insider-trading-20170908-story.html)
conveniently unloaded company stock after discovering, *but before
disclosing* the hack, and today [the CEO “voluntarily
retired.”](http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/wireStory/equifax-ceo-retires-wake-damaging-data-breach-50102174)
I know it looks like they’re pulling the ripcords on their golden
parachutes but I’m sure it’s all as innocent and kosher as unleavened
bread. The EquiFuck is so bad that the traditional stern admonishment to
never do it again followed by sizeable donations to political
accomplices probably won’t cut it this time. I better see some perps in
prison.

Sending EquiFucks to prison, while gratifying – their agony will be
delicious – won’t fix the real problem which is the collection of
immutable identifiers like Social Security Numbers. I’ve [raged about
the idiocy of Social Security Numbers
before](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2015/05/17/social-security-numbers-are-broken-beyond-repair/)
and until we move to a proper private and public key based
identification system EquiFucks will just keep happening.  I could care
less if the EquiFucks of the world store my public key. Without my
private key, which I, and only I know,  it cannot be used to find shit.
Of course, this will destroy the business model of financial predators
like credit score companies but, paraphrasing Mao, you’ve got a break a
few eggs now and then.
