 
[Euphoria: Review](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/07/18/euphoria-review/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 18 Jul 2015 16:47:38*

Lily King's excellent new novel *Euphoria* derives from an incident in
Margaret Mead’s life. Margaret Mead achieved fame as a young woman with
her 1928 book *[Coming of Age in
Samoa](https://www.amazon.com/Coming-Age-Samoa-Psychological-Civilisation/dp/0688050336)*.
Usually scholarly works do not attract mass audiences but the [good
bits](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wPiHQ37gXnE) of Mead’s book read
like soft-core porn and introduced the radical idea that sexual behavior
in adolescence may have strong cultural overtones. Nowadays we lump such
deep revelations in the “No Shit Sherlock” category!

Some of this is brilliantly alluded to in *Euphoria*. The strong female
character (Nell) had written a popular book that her husband (Fen)
envied and peers deprecated. The three main characters, Nell, Fen and
Bankson, are social anthropologists doing field research in New Guinea
in the 1930s. All three have serious doubts about what they are doing.
They obliquely acknowledge the sheer conceit of foreign neophytes
descending on an unfamiliar culture and, without speaking the language,
being familiar with the environment, or knowing [jack
shit](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Jack+Shit) about
the local economy, “decode a people,” in a few short months.

Early social anthropologists liked to cast themselves as
“anti-missionaries.” *Euphoria* echoes this sentiment in a few
passages. Anthropologists were there to learn about a culture not
obliterate it with Christian sky fairy fantasies. The admirable
agnosticism of social anthropologists, you cannot take one myth
seriously when you have studied hundreds, is still blunted by an
infantile dedication to the absolute primacy of culture. We are not
animals but Rousseauian “blank sheets” that our culture scribbles on.
Many contemporary social scientists of the left, “Are there any other
kind?” bitterly dismiss criticism of this ludicrous axiom as “White
Privilege.” The social anthropologists of Mead’s day may have been a bit
delusional and naive but they didn’t create utter bullshit like
[Critical Race
Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critical_race_theory) or, I kid
you freaking not, [Microaggression
Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microaggression_theory).

My only complaint about *Euphoria* is that it romanticizes a “soft
pseudo-science.” Anthropology has two major branches: physical and
social. Physical anthropology deals with things like comparative
anatomy, radioisotope dating, geological layering, and DNA; it is very
much a *real* science! Social anthropology is all squishy, personal, and
non-verifiable; it is not a real science. It’s not even, to use
Rutherford’s exquisite burn, “stamp collecting.” *Euphoria* makes this
all clear to scientifically literate readers. In many ways *Euphoria* is
a better introduction to Mead than Mead herself: recommended.
