
[Evelyn's Death](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/05/02/evelyns-death/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 02 May 2024 17:36:43*

Next week is the 11^th^ anniversary of my mother's death. It seems like
yesterday, but a decade has passed. In that decade, my father Frank, my
aunt Alberta, my wife's mother Mahin, my good friend Carl, and many
others have died: an entire generation has fallen. Those of us still
alive have also changed. My first wife is in memory care, the health of
some family members and in-laws have taken concerning turns, and many of
us are poorer, less hopeful, and more resigned to our fates than ever.
The following is an entry I made in my *Personal Photography Diary*
shortly after my mother's death. I sporadically cultivate many diaries,
logs, notebooks, and this blog. Sorry, I cannot help myself. Most of
what I write eventually embarrasses me, but this diary entry is a rare
exception.


-----------------------------------


It's been over a year since my last PPD entry---this diary, like my
lifelong photographic affliction, waxes and wanes. For most of 2013,
it's been a long, painful wax. Much has happened. The biggest change in
my life was the death of my mother. I wrote about this in my blog: see
[Evelyn's Eulogy.](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/05/15/evelyns-eulogy/) Mom
died almost one year after my last entry. The annular eclipse trip to
Page, Arizona, was my last outing with her. Of course, I didn't know it
at the time.

What I have said about this publicly is what I felt people could accept.
You cannot be a completely self-centered shithead while people are
mourning. My dad, brother, sister, wife, in-laws, and *outlaws*[^8149x1] have
complex feelings about Mom. We all loved her, and we were left stunned
by her sudden, wretched death from brain cancer. I've seen four
grandparents, four outlaws, and two friends die of various causes, but
Mom's death was the worst of the lot.

Her cancer was discovered one morning when she started babbling while my
parents were driving home from grocery shopping. Dad couldn't understand
a thing she was saying and wisely called 911. Everyone's first thought
was a *stroke,* but further examination led to the discovery of a
"growth" in her left hemisphere near her brain's speech centers. She was
operated on. Most of the tumor was removed, along with part of her
speech centers. From that day on, she couldn't read, write, speak
clearly, or understand much of what was said. Her cancer surgery turned
her into a different person. After assessing the tissue removed from her
brain, she was diagnosed with *stage 4 glioblastoma multiforme,* just
about the worst cancer you can get. This cancer is so deadly it's
nicknamed The Terminator. *Glioblastoma* makes Arnold's *Terminator*
look like an underachieving pussy-robot. Nobody escapes *glioblastoma
multiforme;* it's just a question of how long it's going to take to kill
you and how much you suffer while dying.

In Mom's case, it took two and a half months, and her last month was
hell incarnate. When I found out what she had, I did a little Googling
and quickly found statistical *survival* *curves* for her cancer. They
were so depressing that I stopped reading and decided to be hopeful. I
knew it was irrational, but there were no other options. I didn't expect
her to make the *median survival time* of thirteen months. That figure
came from younger and healthier patients. Mom had a long list of
ailments: two knee replacements, Crohn's disease, dangerously low blood
pressure, and obesity. She had almost died six years earlier from a
terrible Crohn's flare-up. She was in no shape, either mentally or
physically, to fight her cancer. That's probably why she so calmly
absorbed the bad news while my dad freaked out.

When people find growths in your brain, it's never good news, but until
the verdict came in, I don't think Dad seriously thought Mom was going
to die. We never *really* know the people we have known all our lives.
They can surprise us right up to their last breath. Dad surprised me
while Mom was dying. He chose to fight and was reluctant to curtail
treatment right up to the end. He kept encouraging her to stick with her
chemotherapy and radiation treatments despite the discomfort and
inevitable pointlessness. Two weeks before mom died, Dad and I sat with
one of her Oncologists. He gave us the "it's hopeless talk" and advised
we transfer Mom to hospice. Dad didn't want to hear it and complained
afterward about how "that Jewish doctor just wants to give up." Dad has
frank opinions but curtails them. He was mad, frustrated, and still
getting used to Mom's situation. We all were.

I was taking PTO to see Mom. I was going to wait, but my ex-wife Ruth
had flown out shortly after hearing about Mom to help take care of her
and say goodbye. Ruth had just lost her younger sister Miriam to ovarian
cancer in January and was taking time off. Miriam was only fifty-four,
and her death was a shock to all of us. Then, news of my mother spread.
Ruth always liked my parents more than she liked me and decided to make
the trip from Ontario to Montana one last time. Shortly after she saw
Mom, she got me on the phone and said I better get out there; it was
worse than I thought, and Ruth, a brilliant and experienced palliative
care physician, knew it. I cried twice during this entire ordeal. While
I was on the phone with Ruth and after Mom died in her living room. Ruth
didn't have to do what she did. I will always be grateful for her
kindness when it mattered the most.

I made quick arrangements and flew to Bozeman. I had been warned, so I
wasn't shocked when I saw Mom, but, as I said, she was a different
person. The brain surgery had robbed her of the resources she most
desperately needed. Mom was always a courageous and capable woman. She
met her trials with guts and never flinched or whined. Facing certain
death is the most challenging thing we will ever do, and Mom had to face
it with part of her brain missing. She was fearful, confused, depressed,
and so sad. It still breaks my heart to think of it. I did what little I
could. Mom didn't want to be alone, so Steve, Aileen, and I took turns
sleeping in her hospital room.

It wasn't much, and I'm still mad at myself for wasting the last hours
of her life. I did not rise to the occasion. We didn't have deep
end-of-life conversations; we didn't start a terminal book club. Mom
struggled to speak and understand. She wasn't up to sustained
conversation. We watched a little TV; she still enjoyed *The Big Bang
Theory*; we helped her in and out of the bathroom and called her nurses
to adjust IVs. A few days before I flew back to St. Louis, Mom was moved
to a nursing home. Again, she wanted to go home, but Dad resisted. I
meekly acceded, and I still regret it. She just wanted to be home.

Before I left, my son Jacob flew out to Montana. He had dropped out of
Carlton and was fighting his own battles, but I insisted he see his
grandmother one last time. He stayed with her in the nursing home, and
Mom said he took good care of her. I had to get back to St. Louis. I was
a "key resource" on a late project. Why the hell this mattered will
forever trouble me. I expected Mom's condition to stabilize, and I was
planning to come back in a month or so. I thought she would last longer,
but I was utterly wrong.

While I was back in St. Louis, Mali finally settled her demented mother,
Mahin, in a suitable nursing home in Toronto and flew to Montana. She
was furious about my mother's treatment. It would have been better if
Mali had gone sooner because she would have fought for my mother to go
home. Except for my brother Steve, the rest of the family was too
comfortable taking medical advice. Mom's situation was hopeless. Her
time was short. "Why don't you do what she wants?" Mali repeatedly
asked. From the start of this ordeal, Mali was completely in Mom's
corner and was angry at the rest of us for not fighting for her. Mom
finally came home two days before she died. They set her up in a bed in
the living room. She was seldom awake and, as a final injury, had lost
her sight. Mali begged me to forget about whatever bullshit I was doing
at work and fly back. My boss, Cassandra, echoed this and told me to go.

I made it back to Bozeman at noon. Mali met me at the airport, and we
went straight home. Mom was in the middle of the living room. It was
bright and sunny. Alberta, her sister, had made it from Seattle and was
sitting on a couch beside her. The rest of the family, Steve, Sue,
Brianna, Amanda, Brianna's babies, and Dad were milling around the
house. Mom was asleep and struggling for breath. I rubbed her badly
IV-bruised arm and told her I was there; she seemed to breathe a little
smoother. I am unsure if she heard me, but Mali insists she did. Shortly
after my arrival, she died. It was like she was waiting for me. I
retired to a chair in the corner of the room and burst into
uncontrollable sobbing. This was the second time I cried.

Shortly afterward, the palliative care nurse came, officially declared
Mom dead, and called the funeral home. The funeral home people, a young
couple that had recently bought a funeral home in Livingston, came and
gently placed Mom's body in a dignified body bag. As they wrapped Mom
up, Mali burst into tears, "I don't like this," she cried. She didn't
want Mom taken out of her beautiful home. To this day, she can't stand
thinking of Mom's home without her. Mom, wrapped up like a mummy, was
loaded into a plain van. The van doors were closed, and she was driven
away. I don't remember death dates, but May 7^th^, 2013, will stick.

[^8149x1]: "Outlaws" is a term I use for divorced former relatives.
