[Everybody Abandon Facebook
Day](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/05/21/everybody-abandon-facebook-day/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 21 May 2010 18:51:24*

Yesterday was the first ever [Everybody Draw Mohammed
Day.](http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/05/19/facebook-fracas-breaks-everybody-draw-mohammad-day/#)
My favorite Everybody Draw Mohammed cartoon is shown below.

[Image link: The Glory-Ass Koran](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/photos/874351252_o23th-S.jpg)

For the [troglodytes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Troglodyte) among us
Everybody Draw Mohammed Day was a sarcastic reaction to years of
bullying, death threats and
[fatwas](http://islam.about.com/od/law/g/fatwa.htm) issued against
cartoonists for the horrible crime of drawing caricatures of Mohammed.
The point of Everybody Draw Mohammed Day was to drive home the simple
fact that when it comes to free speech there are no sacred cows or
prophets! Nothing is beyond *offensive satire.*

For me free speech is an absolute *inalienable* right that overrides
nonsense like religious belief. If you attempt to regulate my speech I
will resist. The harder you push the more I will push back. If you
curtail or regulate my speech I will scream louder. If you pass laws
restricting discourse I will break them. If you suppress my voice I will
stop debating and start shooting. And, if you think I am bluffing go
ahead and call me on it.

Given the depth of this conviction I was sorely disappointed to see that
Facebook dropped The Everybody Draw Mohammed Day page. The cowardly
weasels weren’t even responding to official complaints. They just
decided to self-censor themselves and a hundred thousand Facebook users
as well. Of course they had their reasons but let’s cut the crap. They
have shown us that when cards are in play they have no core beliefs
beyond pimping user data to third parties for cash.

I cannot endorse such behavior so I deleted my Facebook account. This
was not an empty gesture for me. As a divorced father living in another
country I enjoyed seeing Facebook posts from my kids on a regular basis
but sometimes we have to give up things we like when they clash with
principles.

So I am inviting all that sincerely uphold free speech to join with me
on June 5, 2010, (the day Facebook allegedly deletes my account), to
celebrate **Everybody Abandon Facebook Day** by deleting your own
Facebook account.
