 
[Evil Queens are getting Hotter](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/06/03/evil-queens-are-getting-hotter/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 03 Jun 2012 20:50:25*

There’s not a lot of good news out there. Our currencies are being
sodomized by [economic
imbeciles](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/photos/i-K4d39S3/0/X3/i-K4d39S3-X3.jpg).
High unemployment has demoralized the masses and forced lobotomized
bureaucrats to get off their entitled asses and [redefine
it](https://www.shadowstats.com/). The suck—oops stock—market has
returned
[SFO](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=sweet%20fuck%20all)
for a decade. CO~2~ [levels](https://co2now.org/) are rising. [The
seas](https://tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/sltrends/sltrends.shtml) are not
subsiding; they didn’t get [The One’s
memo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2pZSvq9bto). Goons are [getting
nukes](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/05/26/nork\_nuke\_test/).
Species are [going
extinct](https://news.softpedia.com/news/The-Rate-of-Extinction-3-Species-per-Hour-55411.shtml).
The freaking [LA Kings](https://kings.nhl.com/) are two up in the Stanley
Cup finals and,
[Mohammed](https://zombietime.com/mohammed\_image\_archive/jyllands-posten\_cartoons/)
in a [transvestite
musical](https://verredaffair.blogspot.com/2011/09/whats-your-favorite-transvestite.html),
the [Kardashians](https://www.eonline.com/shows/kardashians) are still on
TV. In this bleak, soul suffocating,
[Obamalypse](https://www.zazzle.com/obamalypse+now+gifts) we must take
solace from any quarter and I’ve found one; *evil queens are getting
hotter!*

This positive trend surfaced with TV’s [Once Upon a
Time](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1843230/): a rare, well written,
series that ripped familiar fairy tale characters out of children’s
books and deposited them in Storybrooke: a small *fictional* town in
Maine. All of our favorite characters are present: Snow White, Little
Red Riding Hood, Pinocchio, Rumplestiltskin and, outclassing them all,
Regina, Snow White’s poison apple wielding nemesis the Wicked Queen
played by [Lana Parrilla](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0663469/). Regina
is no hook nosed NPR feminist hag. This wicked queen is a high-caliber
alpha cougar. Frankly, I envy her victims. Please Regina; make me your
next man-toy.

An even hotter queen is Ravenna, another incarnation of Snow White’s
mortal enemy, from [Snow White and the
Huntsman](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/snow\_white\_and\_the\_huntsman/).
Huntsman is a dark straight up high-tech rendering of Snow White’s tale.
The movie is competent but is afraid of veering off well-trodden
material. I found it flat and predictable. Great movies astonish, good
movies surprise, ordinary movies entertain and bad movies are lauded by
liberal film critics.

Huntsman is ordinary but has its charms. The best character is [Charlize
Theron’s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charlize_Theron) wicked queen
Ravenna. Ravenna has an endearing nasty bitch habit. She must
periodically slurp up the life force of attractive young women to stay
“the fairest of them all.” Think of it as extreme celebrity Botox. You
may object to Ravenna’s ravishing methods but you cannot argue with the
results. This wicked queen is setting new standards for maximum babe
bad.

As a mainly manly man I thank the [FSM](https://www.venganza.org/) for
Regina and Ravenna. Evil queening: it’s not for obese dykes anymore.
