 
[Executioners should be selected like jurors](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/07/30/executioners-should-be-selected-like-jurors/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 31 Jul 2012 00:16:00*

Jonah Goldberg makes an excellent point in [his recent
column](https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/opinion/oped/bs-ed-goldberg-death-penalty-20120730,0,6792851.story)
about how the media always exploits shooting sprees to push for gun
control but seldom asks — *what should we do with mass murders?* To my
right-wingy, death-beasty, vengeance-seeking, cowboy mind [James
Holmes](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/james-holmes-expected-to-be-charged-monday-in-colorado-massacre/2012/07/30/gJQAFCRQKX\_story.html),
the Colorado Dark Knight Rises cinema shooter, is a perfect candidate
for the death penalty. Let’s review the facts.

1.  **Is James guilty beyond any reasonable doubt?** Hell fucking yes!
    There is absolutely no doubt this little shithead is guiltier than
    sin. He is so fucking guilty that even a battalion of lawyers
    couldn’t prove otherwise.

2.  **Is James mentally competent?** Here tiny lawyer brains will
    attempt to argue that poor little James is obviously mentally ill
    because he killed all those innocent people and only mentally ill
    people kill people. It’s tautological drivel like this that’s
    destroyed whatever esteem lawyers once had. It’s a pathetic argument
    but let’s play anyway. Was Caesar mentally ill when he came saw and
    conquered? Was Truman mentally ill when he decided to nuke
    Hiroshima? I hold that choosing to kill any number of people, either
    directly or indirectly, is not, ipso facto, proof of mental illness.
    We don’t live in a
    [Kumbya](https://www.thespoof.com/news/spoof.cfm?headline=s2i89689)
    universe people! Sometimes there are excellent reasons for killing
    people and, more often than not, murders know exactly what they are
    doing. James is mentally competent. He carefully, logically and
    methodically executed his murderous spree.

3.  **Was the act premeditated?** Duh — you don’t booby trap your
    apartment or stockpile ammo by accident!

James scored a perfect trifecta; he’s absolutely guilty, he knew what he
was doing and he carefully planned his murders. Colorado is a death
penalty state. *If James retires to a life of cable TV in prison that
will be a miscarriage of justice!*

Coloradoans shouldn’t worry another nanosecond about the fate of this
piece-of-shit. They should be lining up to execute him which brings me
to my one problem with the death penalty. If you are unable to kill
someone you shouldn’t expect others to do it for you. Our current system
of *humane execution,* (talk about oxymoronic bullshit), by professional
executioners is absurd. It shields society from the consequences of
their laws and beliefs and it grants to much power to the state. Life
and death belongs in the people’s hands. We should select executioners
like we select jurors. Maybe if we had to pull the trigger, throw the
switch, or swing the head removing axe ourselves we might decide we
don’t like the death penalty. I know many death penalty opponents think
that’s the case but it’s also possible that we might like it even more.
I could easily bludgeon poor James to death hence I can abide the death 
penalty. Can You?
