[Faith a guilty
pleasure](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/09/02/faith-a-guilty-pleasure/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 02 Sep 2012 23:47:02*

It’s a quiet Labor Day weekend in the *drivel dome*[^4] and your
fearless reporter is a tad bored. I could help with the housework or get
out and exercise but I have better things to do. Last night while
trolling the
[intertubes](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=intertubes)
for something to watch on [Hulu](http://www.hulu.com/) I came across a
transcendentally awesome Korean TV series called
[Faith](http://www.hulu.com/search?q=faith). I know what you’re
thinking. I haven’t fallen off the skeptical horse. I’m still the same
old judgmental know-it-all bombastic boomer asshole you’ve come to know
and love. The series Faith has, as far as I can tell after many long
hours of couch research, nothing to do with religious faith. This is one
of the many reasons I adore this show.

Faith is basically another Asian martial arts epic. After the demise of
the demigod Bruce Lee it’s been mandatory for Asians residing east of
Himalayas and south of Siberia to work martial arts into the plot
whether it makes any damn sense or not. The Chinese, Koreans, Japanese,
Vietnamese and other East Asians all follow Bruce’s mandate with various
spins. Naturally, the most odious and predictable martial spins come
from the mainland Chinese. With few exceptions mainland martial arts
goes something like this.

Evil plots are afoot that are threatening the unity of the homeland.
Nefarious forces, mostly internal, sometimes external, are plotting to
bring down the well-ordered Middle Kingdom. A charismatic badass plans
to exploit disunity, dishonor the people and shit all over the
ancestors. Something must be done! The ruler, usually a wise emperor, or
a really hot empress, tasks some typically reluctant super warrior to
off the badass. The super warrior may have ambivalent feelings about the
current ruler but never about the homeland. Sure the current ruler is a
decadent pussy boy with weak Kung Fu and that’s too bad for *him* but
damn, the country is not going down on my super warrior watch.
Predictable mayhem ensues, bodies pile up, evil almost triumphs, gloats
too much, and then falls to a combination of super warrior martial arts
and old-fashioned hubris. In the end the homeland is saved and the
closing credits suggest the super warrior *might* get some serious tail.
I find it interesting that Hollywood is constantly destroying western
civilization while mainland Chinese films forcefully reiterate that the
homeland will always abide. I think it’s safe to say there hasn’t been
an original mainland Chinese martial arts film since Bruce’s glory days.

Thankfully the South Koreans are not like mainland Chinese. Without the
burden of an oppressive humorless government forever threatening serious
consequences for plot *wrong-think* South Koreans can show some humor
and originality. Faith is an excellent example. We know right away this
is not standard martial arts because the bad guys are mainland Chinese
threatening to overrun little Korea. Even odder, our hero and heroine
are the oddest of couples. He’s a tall 14^th^ century *ultra-ninja-oid*
that can shoot lightning bolts from his hands while she is a ditsy
21^st^ century plastic surgeon. It’s your basic boy meets time wormhole
meets girl story. Faith only gets better after the hero drags the ditsy
surgeon back to the 14^th^ century. The result is a comical martial arts
chick-flicky self parodying guilty pleasure. You can see the cast
members thinking
[WTF](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=wtf) between their
lines and is there a better endorsement than that?

[^4]: *Analyze the Data not the Drivel* is not suitable for succinct
    self-deprecating self-reference.
