[Fake
Programming](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/09/09/fake-progamming/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 09 Sep 2009 21:36:47*

I have been a *fake programmer* for a long time. A fake programmer is
someone who writes software to crush personal irritants. Fake
programmers are not hackers; they don’t enjoy the process of software
creation; they don’t work for [the
man](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The\_Man) and they make piss poor
cubicle dwellers. Fake programmers detest industry standards and will
wage silent, passive aggressive, war on anyone foolish enough to insist
on them. The typical fake programmer is boiling with rage, *\`\`what do
you mean there’s nothing out there that solves my problem!"* When
confronted with nasty problems fake programmers:

1.  Look for ways to ignore them

2.  Try to pass the buck

3.  Live with suboptimal crap

4.  Whine

5.  Complain about lesbians on welfare

6.  Yell at morons on TV

7.  Write snarky blog posts

and if all else fails: **write some damn software**.

By the time the fake programmer has decided to code he is looking for
the quickest and least painful solution to his problem. Remember the
fake programmer doesn’t care about your problems and won’t live by your
rules. He only wants to kill his problem and get his blood pressure back
to normal.

Fake programmers will use industry standard languages and tools if they
provide the quickest fix. Of course this is rarely the case. At this
point fake and *real* programmers diverge. Real programmers will stick
to their standard software guns and plod along. The fake programmer says
screw that; let’s stake out this vampire!

I recently drove a stake through the — “no decent [IBM/Cognos
Planning](http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/cognos/products/cognos-8-planning/)
model diagram tool” — vampire. In my day job I wrestle with financial
planning software. Corporate planning software is an *irritant rich*
environment. My biggest complaint was the lack of an automatic way to
quickly and accurately outline the contents of a Cognos model. Without
such a guide you will be at the mercy of “documentation”, (don’t make me
laugh) , or worse, Cognos Planning’s [ultra-sucky user
interface](http://www.buigallery.com/). Either way you can kiss your
weekends good bye.

Fortunately, I am an excellent fake J programmer. [J is my favorite
programming language](http://www.jsoftware.com/). What’s J you ask? You
have never heard of it and that’s to bad for you! You have deprived your
brain of a [tool of
thought](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth\_E.\_Iverson) and my human
side feels for you: of course the outer fake programmer doesn’t give a
rat’s ass. Using [J’s excellent graphviz
addon](http://www.jsoftware.com/jwiki/Addons/graphics/graphviz) I can
generate two Cognos Planning
*[\*.csv](http://www.fileinfo.com/extension/csv)* files containing model
metadata and then apply my
*[analystgraphs](http://www.box.net/shared/7mqg9bek5x)* script to
generate accurate, blood pressure reducing, diagrams like:

[Image Link:Cognos Planning model
structure](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/photos/672169130_vajvn-L.png)

If you are interested in these diagrams feel free to download and use my
J scripts. Of course you will have to learn enough J to run them.
