
[Ferguson and 
Dark Matter](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/11/26/ferguson-and-dark-matter/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 26 Nov 2014 06:44:07*

For the last month the big story here in St. Louis has been Ferguson. At
least that’s what media hucksters have sold as the big story. You will
have to excuse me; my interests rarely align with “the news.” I don’t
watch broadcast TV, listen to the radio, or *pay* for newspapers.
Despite my media starvation diet I am better informed than many
broadcast addicts. What’s my secret?

Everyday I *read* scores of news stories from many Internet sources.
When I gave up broadcasting a few years ago I worried that I might miss
something. Actually the exact opposite has occurred. I usually learn of
things long before they are “discussed” in main stream outlets.
Contemporary broadcasters remind me of short wave Radio Moscow
transmissions in the 1970s. Radio Moscow was an insipid utterly
predictable propaganda outlet. Listening to what they said was
unnecessary. I could predict with nearly 100% accuracy what their slant
on any topic would be. They only surprised me *by what they didn’t
cover.* *With propaganda only silence is news.* I bet you feel the same
about that broadcaster you despise. Is it really necessary to listen to
MSNBC, FOX, BBC or the CBC? Their ideological positions are almost as
predictable as cold war era Radio Moscow. If your news is not surprising
it’s not news; it’s noise.

Ferguson is a classic case of surprise free news. Everyone agrees that a
white police officer shot and killed a black teenager. Such a lovely
bare-bones tableau invites creative interpretation and that’s exactly
what we got. There are hundreds of *predictable* Ferguson authorities.
You can Google any viewpoint you want. What’s lacking in all the
hysteria is what skeptics call *reliable data*.

To me the officer’s guilt is similar to your favorite type of Dark
Matter. The case for Dark Matter is very strong. Something out there is
undeniably affecting the rotation and formation of galaxies. Similarly,
we have a dead teenager, and a literal smoking gun, in Ferguson. Now pay
attention; this is where we separate skeptically informed thought from
raving ideological demagoguery. The case for Dark Matter is strong but
the case for particular types of Dark Matter is close to nonexistent.
Detection experiments are ongoing, inconclusive or outright failures.
Yeah, the Dark Matter science is not settled. Similarly, the case for
the officer’s quilt is far from ironclad. Perhaps that explains the
grand jury’s verdict. If you disagree offer *incontrovertible* evidence.

Of course missing incontrovertible evidence is never a problem for
people who have made up their minds. People believe all sorts nonsense,
ghosts, demons, past lives, central banking efficacy, but, as I often
say, “belief is a bullshit word; you know or you don’t know.” If you
cannot mount a rigorous case that withstands the harshest and meanest of
skeptics please calm down and refrain from looting and arson.
