 
[For Carl’s Memorial](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/06/20/for-carls-memorial/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 20 Jun 2015 18:06:47*

*A memorial celebration for the life of Carl Sullivan was held today,
June 20, 2015, in Calgary. I was unable to attend but I sent this little
note. The world is a little gloomier without Carl.*

1969 was a memorable year for many reasons but two “events” stand out
for me. It was the year of Apollo 11, the epochal first moon landing. If
humans still exist a thousand years from now the first moon landing will
still be remembered and lauded. Of less historical, but greater personal
interest, 1969 was also the year I met Carl B. Sullivan.

Apollo marked a high water mark for western civilization; we have been
steadily degenerating ever since. Similarly, Carl, for me, marked a high
*friendship* mark. No event of the last forty-six years holds a candle
to Apollo 11 and no post Carl friend holds a candle to Carl.

I know Carl would enjoy being bonded with Apollo 11. He enjoyed the
“weird.” His own weird, the weird of others, the world’s weird. Carl
liked to cast himself as a sage and wizard. He was certainly a sage of
the absurd and a wizard of fun.

I have many fond memories of visiting Carl after another exquisitely
self-crafted dismaying day only to have Carl wave his wizard’s wand and
make my gloom bloom. This is an exceedingly rare talent and frankly we
were blessed to fall under his spell.

I know Carl was ambivalent about the prospects of an afterlife. His
appetite for the absurd did not extend to religion. I am harsher; I
expect utter oblivion, but if I am wrong and find myself cast into Hell
for a lifetime of misdemeanors, I’ll find Carl, (he had his own Hell
worthy misdemeanors), and Carl being Carl, will turn Hell into an
eternal party!

Goodbye old friend you will never know how much we all miss you.
