 
[Google Earth Image Touring](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/04/google-earth-image-touring/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 04 Oct 2009 12:00:08*

In a scientific poll of one, (I sampled myself), [Google
Earth](https://earth.google.com/) was voted the greatest free program on
Earth. The brilliant developers at Google have managed to turn the most
unlikely subject, *geography,* into a video game. And what a game it is!
Google Earth doesn’t troll around in an adolescent make believe world.
Google Earth serves up the real thing. This would be amazing enough but
with Google Earth you can explore the Moon, Mars and the night sky as
well. If you have any *geographic or astronomical needs* get Google
Earth.

I got into Google Earth a few years ago when I started
[geotagging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geotagging) old pictures.
Locating old, pre-GPS pictures, is one of the better Google Earth games.
My mother snapped this picture of me in 1964. I am standing in front of
the Uintah mountains in north eastern Utah.

[Image link: Me near Redwash Utah](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/me-redwash-unitah-mountains/473523331_SUqr7-S-3.jpg)

1964 was long before GPS was even a dream. To find *exactly* where I was
standing I turned on Google Earth’s terrain feature and slowly followed
the adjacent road until all the landscape features matched up.

For famous sites it’s not this hard. Here I am at Stonehenge. Stonehenge
is a Google Earth *nobrainer*.

[Image link: Me Stonehenge](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Diaries/Been-There-Done-That-1/me-at-stonehenge-england/481349840_2EJHN-S.jpg)

Over the last few years I have geotagged hundreds of images. It’s
something I will continue to do until I drop dead. Online picture sites
like [SmugMug](https://www.smugmug.com/) provide automatic mapping of
geotagged images but Google Earth does a much better job if you do a
little
[KML](https://code.google.com/apis/kml/documentation/kml\_tut.html)
programming. KML is an XML namespace used by Google Earth and Google
Maps. It can be used to *tour* geotagged images. When KML files are
compressed, (any ZIP utility will do), they are given a KMZ file
extension. KMZ files can be loaded by Google Earth.

The attached KMZ file
[`geotagged.kmz`](https://www.box.net/shared/xha0totm6f) was generated by
a [J script](https://www.box.net/shared/vhog7606hy) I put together to
query my geotagged SmugMug pictures. When loaded into Google Earth it
spins around the world pausing to display all the pictures I have
geotagged. I realize few will be interested in my pictures but it’s not
hard to extract the KML embedded in `geotagged.kmz` and adapt it to your
pictures. Go forth and hack my friends.
