
[How Dante Can
Save Your Life: Review](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/07/12/how-dante-can-your-life-review/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 12 Jul 2015 19:35:46*

Dante’s
*[Commedia](http://www.gutenberg.org/files/8800/8800-h/8800-h.htm) *may
save your life but I wouldn’t bet on this book doing the same. How
*[Dante can Save Your
Life](http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/how-dante-can-save-your-life-rod-dreher/1121191388?ean=9781941393772)*
is both interesting, annoying, and ultimately disappointing. If I had
stopped in the middle of this book I would have rated it higher. It
certainly started out well but, what can only be described as the
author’s whining, slowly degraded my view.

The seriously religious do not perceive reliable approximations of
reality. They are drifting with their phantoms, looking for things that
cannot be rationally demonstrated to exist. Though I admire the
discipline and restraint many intelligent religious people exhibit it’s
simply impossible to take their cherished beliefs seriously. Those of us
that *demand* verifiable reasons for accepting propositions will never
accede to the belief that the purpose of life is to return to God. The
author repeatedly returns to this theme as he reads Dante and shares his
own life.

The author, Rod Dreher, and his family endured serious grief. The best
part of this book is his retelling of his sister’s death from cancer in
her forties and her community’s out pouring of love and support. I don’t
think the author would disagree that his sister’s death, and the [book
he wrote about
it](http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/the-little-way-of-ruthie-leming-rod-dreher/1112412048?ean=9781455521913),
greatly contributed to his career as a writer.

It was at this point the author had a crisis that lead to Dante.
Cemeteries are for the living not the dead, *as is myth.* Dante created
an extravagant and great myth and like all great classics his epic poem
has much to offer readers in any age. The author uses it as a type of
self-help book to work through his family problems.

His problems are common. Many of us have seen loved family members die
horribly, many of us have suffered crippling injuries, many of have
distressing careers, and many of us have family members that are
struggling with themselves and us. Yet some of us are tough enough to
see life as a random clash of blameless atoms and that whining will not
fix anything.

In Dante’s view this is the great sin of pride that unchecked leads to
Hell. Lucky for us Hell and Heaven are myths. Art, however great, is not
reality.
