
[How Many Authenticated Ancient Mathematical Artifacts are Known?](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2023/02/26/how-many-authenticated-ancient-mathematical-artifacts-are-known/) 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 26 Feb 2023 21:55:23*

"How many authenticated ancient mathematical artifacts are known?"

I recently asked myself this question while researching the history of
mathematical proof. Ultimately, all historical theories *must answer to
the evidence*. For mathematics, this means studying *surviving*
parchment documents, cuneiform tablets, bamboo strips, bone markings,
Stella inscriptions, calculating boards, and other objects, that inform
our mathematical origin stories. And, when it comes to the ancient
history of mathematics, that's all we have --- stories. Stories that are
spun from *a very small number* of authentic artifacts.

"How bad is it?"

When I started tracking down references to ancient mathematical
artifacts, I quickly discovered that everyone keeps referring to the
same short list of objects. Instead of going down a rabbit hole, you
find yourself wandering in a circular maze littered with objects like
the [Ishango
Bone](https://www.maa.org/press/periodicals/convergence/mathematical-treasure-ishango-bone),
[Plimpton 322](https://cdli.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/artifacts/254790), the
[Rhind
Papyrus](https://www.britishmuseum.org/collection/object/Y_EA10058),
[Yale YBC 7289](https://cdli.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/artifacts/255048), the
[Suàn shù
shū](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0315086005001084),
[oracle
bones](https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/HistTopics/Chinese_numerals/),
the [Bakhshali
manuscript](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/261845005_Ancient_Indian_Square_Roots_An_Exercise_in_Forensic_Paleo-Mathematics),
[W 19408,76](https://cdli.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/artifacts/3118), the
[Khmer
Zero](https://amiraczel.org/2017/09/23/k-127-installed-in-cambodian-national-museum-phnom-penh/),
and a few surviving medieval versions of [Euclid's
Elements](https://digital.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/objects/d4a23501-0b98-4aff-acd6-fe06fe9b62e3/surfaces/06cfa3b7-2aad-465e-88ac-0ebe3f2b5d13/).
Surely the [dense convoluted
tomes](https://www.amazon.com/History-Mathematical-Proof-Ancient-Traditions/dp/110701221X)
going on about the history of mathematics cannot --- when traced back to
source materials --- depend on such a meager collection: a collection so
small it would fit in the bed of your pickup with enough space left over
for your dog!

Ancient authenticated mathematical artifacts are exceedingly rare. They
are among the rarest of all ancient artifacts.
Figure [\[fig:7765x1\]](#fig:7765x1){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:7765x1"} on page  was taken from [*The Mathematics of
Egypt, Mesopotamia, China, India, and Islam: A
Sourcebook*](https://press.princeton.edu/books/hardcover/9780691114859/the-mathematics-of-egypt-mesopotamia-china-india-and-islam);
it lists all the known major Egyptian mathematical artifacts. *There are
fifteen objects in this table spanning some two thousand four-hundred
years!*

I think we can safely infer that our knowledge of ancient Egyptian
mathematics is woefully incomplete. The ancient Greeks, still widely
lauded for their many mathematical achievements, left *no original
documents*. Euclid's famous *Elements*, a book we still esteem and
admire today, can only be traced to the Middle Ages --- almost a
thousand years after its avowed creation date. A thousand years is
plenty of rewrite time. How much of *The Elements* dates to 300 BCE and
how much derives from later amendments is still hotly contested.

Some cultures are better represented in the archeological record than
others. The Mesopotamians, actually a series of cultures spanning
thousands of years, that lived in the fertile crescent, the land between
the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in modern Iraq, wrote on cuneiform clay
tablets. When dried or baked cuneiform is very stable. Even better the
Mesopotamians recycled their tablets by using them as filling for walls.
Many thousands of these tablets have survived and are still readable
today. Because so many cuneiform tablets have survived it's possible to
apply rudimentary statistics. Of the 5000 tablets found in the late
fourth-millennium city of Urak about 10% were "school" exercises. Most
of these exercises are word lists and other writing exercises but a few
exhibit calculations. We can't be certain if these tablets are
representative but they do show that ancient *Urakians* had the same
aversion to mathematics that's found in modern cultures. *Math nerds
have never been the cool kids!* In any case, the moral of the story is
clear; if you want your stuff read thousands of years from now, write on
durable materials.

For cultures that wrote on perishable materials like papyrus (Egyptians,
Ptolemaic Greeks), bamboo strips (China, Japan, Korea), tree bark
(India), string (Inca and Pre-Inca quipus), and fig-tree fibers (Mayan
codices), the record is extremely sparse. For example, the famous
ancient library of Alexandria supposedly held hundreds of thousands of
papyrus documents, but *not a single one has survived! History is a
cruel castrating bitch!* Lack of material is a common theme: there are
no Indian manuscripts older than 200 AD. The famous Bakhshali manuscript
hints at older materials but none of its predecessors have been found.
Modern Indians make bold claims about the antiquity of their mathematics
but when it comes to hard artifacts their situation is comparable to the
ancient Greeks, another culture that left us *few originals to study*.
The oldest Chinese bamboo strips date to around 200 BCE. There are older
"oracle bone" markings that date to Bronze Age 1200-1000 BCE that show
the ancient Chinese had developed base 10 numerals but sadly, the bone
scripts do not contain any known mathematical texts or cheat sheets. Too
bad!

The oldest known *unambiguously mathematical artifact* is a cuneiform
tablet labeled [W
19408,76](https://cdli.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/artifacts/3118) that dates to
3320 BCE. Five thousand years ago somebody was calculating areas. There
are even older objects that hint at paleolithic mathematics. Tally
sticks --- mostly notched bones like the Ishango and
[Lebombo](https://www.pnas.org/doi/full/10.1073/pnas.1204213109) bones
--- suggest people were "counting" tens of thousands of years ago. You
can't infer much from tally sticks but that hasn't stopped so-called
*ethnomathematicians* from [making extravagant
claims](https://afrolegends.com/2013/08/29/the-ishango-bone-craddle-of-mathematics/).
In the wilder versions, paleolithic number theorists were contemplating
prime numbers twenty thousand years ago. It's not impossible, but as
Carl Sagan famously said, "[Extraordinary Claims Require Extraordinary
Evidence](https://effectiviology.com/sagan-standard-extraordinary-claims-require-extraordinary-evidence/),"
and right now (2023), the data does not align with the drivel.

And speaking of "data", [The Mathematical Association of
America](https://www.maa.org/) maintains one of the best historical
mathematical object lists: [The Index to Mathematical
Treasures](https://www.maa.org/press/periodicals/convergence/index-to-mathematical-treasures).
This list contains roughly 1300 objects. I *screen-scraped* the HTML,
extracted the list, and charitably assigned hard dates to ambivalently
dated objects. For example, the entry for the [Zhoubi
suanjing](https://www.maa.org/press/periodicals/convergence/mathematical-treasures-zhoubi-suanjing)
refers to a book printed in 1603 that claims descent from a 100 BCE
original. So, I take 100 BCE as the date of this object. This charitable
date assignment will tend to make objects older than they probably are.
After assigning dates I computed the following half-millennia histogram.

~~~~
  Count   Cumulative   Start Year   End Year
  ------- ------------ ------------ ----------
  1       1            -25000       -5000
  1       2            -4500        -4000
  2       4            -3000        -2500
  9       13           -2000        -1500
  1       14           -1500        -1000
  7       21           -500         0
  15      36           0            500
  13      49           500          1000
  111     160          1000         1500
  1142    1302         1500         2000
~~~~

Negative numbers refer to BCE dates, and yes, I know the *Year Zero*
does not exist in our calendar. It should but that's a rant for another
day. The second column is a cumulative object count. From -25000 to 0 we
have 21 objects! Remember, I am assigning charitable dates. The actual
count is even lower. The MAA treasures list is not comprehensive but the
trends it exhibits are likely to be stable as the object count
increases. *The vast majority of entries date from the year 1500 to the
present and this corpus constitutes our actual history of mathematics*.
Before 1500 and movable type printing, the object count is profoundly
underrepresented and it only gets worse the further back you go. We just
don't have a lot of germane material to study. Keep this in mind the
next time some blowhard starts opining on the history of mathematics and
its subdisciplines like the history of proof.

So, the answer to my question, "How many authenticated ancient
mathematical artifacts are known?" is simply, ***not many!*** People are
still looking and perhaps in the years to come more objects will be
found that will render our alleged mathematical histories less mythical
and more mathematical.
