 
[I did not have sex with that Oil Spill!](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/06/16/i-did-not-have-sex-with-that-oil-spill/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 16 Jun 2010 18:55:00*

I would like to thank BP for accidently creating a [teachable
moment](https://k6educators.about.com/od/educationglossary/g/gteachmoment.htm)
for our political class. Prior to the gulf cluster-fuck the [most
ethical congress in
history](https://www.breitbart.tv/pelosi-still-says-she%E2%80%99s-running-%E2%80%98most-ethical%E2%80%99-congress-ever/)
did not know that [fluid
dynamics](https://www.claymath.org/millennium/Navier-Stokes\_Equations/)
is one of the hardest of the hard sciences. But, after two months of
heroic attempts to contain the spill with [blame
games](https://www.treehugger.com/files/2010/06/breaking-down-bp-gulf-spill-blame-game.php),
[bribes](https://www.free-press-release.com/news-gulf-oil-scandal-mineral-management-services-bribery-1274902506.html),
[threats](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/blogs/beltway-confidential/with-doj-threatening-prosecution-obama-slams-bp-for-lawyering-up-95647809.html),
[legislative
initiatives](https://www.ldjackson.net/news-politics/the-gulf-oil-spill-and-cap-and-trade/)
and
[golf](https://standbyliberty.org/2010/06/14/obama-golf-vs-the-gulf-you-decide-who-is-winning-better-yet-just-blame-bush/)
it’s finally dawning on the powerful minds that rule us that fluids
cannot be bought-off, community-organized, press-marginalized or
change-the-channel ignored. Reality is such an unfair bitch.

Last night, sensing a disturbance in the zeitgeist, Obama subjected our
nation to a rousing *[I did not have sex with that oil spill
speech](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gh76oepKFc8)*. The One’s words
soared but we, the little unworthy peons, were as unmoved as [oil soaked
pelicans](https://www.aolnews.com/opinion/article/opinion-why-this-is-the-iconic-gulf-oil-spill-picture/19503566).
Even our
[Obamabot](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=obamabot) leg
tinglers failed to detect [executive
command](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2010/06/15/msnbc\_trashes\_obamas\_address\_compared\_to\_carter\_i\_dont\_sense\_executive\_command.html).

I wish I could say I am disappointed but I wrote this government off a
longtime ago. The stark fiscal, technical and rhetorical incompetence
they display every day is no more surprising than sunshine. The oil
spill is an infuriating accidental disaster but it’s not the biggest
spill confronting us. That would be our insane, reckless and entirely
[man
caused](https://newsbusters.org/blogs/tim-graham/2009/03/19/obama-speak-homeland-security-secretary-replaces-terrorism-term-man-caus)
deficit spending.

Let’s do some arithmetic. Let’s assume the unhinged moonbats turned
reservoir engineers have pulled the correct gulf spill rate of 100,000
barrels/day out of their asses. Let’s also assume an oil price of $80
dollars/barrel. When you multiply everything together you find that

    8000000 = 1e5 * 80

eight millions dollars of oil is spilling into the gulf every day.
Sounds bad. Let’s compare that to our government’s fiscal spill. The
deficit for this fiscal year is expected to approach [1.3 trillion
dollars](https://www.usdebtclock.org/). This works out to

    3.56164384e9 = 1.3e12 % 365

roughly 3.6 billion dollars/day or *445 times the gulf spill rate!* If I
could plug only one damn hole I know which one I’d choose!
