
[I Help Fat Little Kim 
Pick Nuke Targets](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/08/12/i-help-fat-little-kim-pick-nuke-targets/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 13 Aug 2017 01:41:56*

Guam?

Guam?

Kim, [you can’t be
serious!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0hK1wyrrAU) I realize you
live in a self-imposed hermit kingdom where questioning your fat headed
notions results in [being thrown to actual
dogs](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/kim-jong-executed-uncle-feeding-pack-starving-dogs-article-1.1565299)
but surely you’re aware of *Baker’s Law of American Cluelessness.*

*No matter what the topic of conversation roughly one-third of the
American public won’t have a freaking clue what you’re talking about.*

I can assure you that an embarrassingly large percentage of Americans
have no idea where, or what, Guam is and, even more disturbingly, even
if they know it’s an island somewhere in the Pacific they may think
[it’s in danger of tipping
over](http://www.snopes.com/politics/quotes/guamtip.asp) if too many
people stand on one end.

Let’s suppose you lose your mind, (I’m being sarcastic Kim), and nuke
Guam. If we don’t immediately destroy you can expect this from the
American public.

1.  Eco-morons and Green-twits will start worrying about nuclear fallout
    drifting ashore in California and write earnest ignorant Internet
    screeds about isotopes of Iodine. Kim, as a devoted Korean hater of
    all things Japanese, I’m sure you remember the great Japanese
    earthquake and tsunami of 2011. Isn’t it great when nature kills
    your enemies for free? More than 15,000 Japanese citizens died and,
    oh yeah, the tsunami also wrecked a nuclear power plant: Fukushima.
    American eco-imbeciles quickly forgot about the earthquake and the
    thousands of dead bodies scattered by the tsunami and started
    worrying about [traces of Fukushima
    radiation](https://www.forbes.com/sites/timworstall/2013/11/16/fukushima-radiation-in-pacific-tuna-is-equal-to-one-twentieth-of-a-banana/#3b3cfee6fe61)
    polluting their [pure bodily
    fluids](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N1KvgtEnABY). If you blow up
    Guam these idiots will ignore your glorious Guam body count and
    start agonizing about radioactive kale and the impact of fallout on
    the transgendered.

2.  Old school American commies, (yes Kim we still have them and they’re
    even more delusional than your commies), will look past your
    selecting Guam as a target, issuing orders to attack it, and them
    calmly murdering thousands of innocents and find some way to blame a
    white capitalist guy. *You see Kim, as a nonwhite Asian dude, you
    have no moral agency*. Even if you think you are making choices it’s
    really just a reaction to what some white capitalist guy did to you,
    or your bat-shit crazy dad, or some distant ancestor, at some
    unspecified time in the past. *Nothing is ever your fault.* This is
    good news for professional western victims but kind of tarnishes
    your great Asian conqueror image. For western commies, there are no
    Asian Genghis Khan’s.

3.  Our uniformly imbecilic *fake-news-ers*, also known as the media,
    will finally have a topic worthy of 24/7 bloviating. They’ll be
    thrilled that an atomic emergency might result in people watching
    them again. Of course, they’ll quickly sabotage their transient
    relevance by staging talking-head-a-thons about “proportional
    responses” to being nuked. If a misunderstood adversary uses a forty
    kiloton nuke on your civilians is it a crime to retaliate with a
    megaton?

4.  Finally, most of the American public will be deeply pissed. They’ll
    cheer when a submarine pops a thermonuclear cap in your fat ass.

Kim nuking Guam is a big suicidal mistake. Don’t get me wrong. I enjoy
grand gestures and heroic deaths. Achilles didn’t garner eternal glory
by coming home from the Trojan War and growing olives. I know you’re
under pressure to live up to dear dead old dad and to dearer older
deader granddad. I know you feel inadequate and will never be worthy of
the aggrandizing bullshit you force feed your people. So let me help you
by selecting nuke worthy American targets. Don’t misconstrue my help. If
you hit any of the following we will still exterminate you and your
comrades.

Instead of Guam consider:

1.  **Washington D.C**: I can’t think of a more nuke worthy target. I
    know D.C. may be a long shot for your tiny-penis-ICBMs but if you
    can hit D.C. please have a whack. Trump’s swamp draining hasn’t been
    going very well. Maybe a swamp nuking would be more effective. The
    downside of nuking D.C. is that many Americans would secretly cheer
    it on. We’ll appreciate the irradiated swamp but we’ll still nuke
    you in return.

2.  **Los Angeles, especially the Hollywood’ey bits**: Americans love
    their vacuous entertainments and the empty-headed narcissistic
    preening nitwits that make them. You can’t imagine what a death-blow
    it would be to forego the next Marvel movie or another
    [ManBearPig](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xf69EEL3WBk) lecture.
    We’ll miss the Hollywood Sign and the Griffith Observatory but
    eagerly look forward to next years [Dead Celebrity
    Roll](http://www.legacy.com/memorial-sites/oscars/) at the
    *relocated* Oscars. Oh, we’ll still nuke your ass, even
    for Hollywood.

3.  **Silicon Valley**: Recent [Goolag’ey
    events](http://www.businessinsider.com/anti-google-ads-pop-up-outside-office-criticizing-ceo-sundar-pichai-2017-8)
    have many Americans wondering if the hubris infused innovators of
    Silicon Valley have lost their mojo. Detonating nukes will take
    their powerful minds off disturbing notions of gender based
    intellectual differences and focus them on finding blast proof
    safe spaces. *Great minds need real problems.* Kim, about the only
    downside of nuking Silicon Valley, is that Facebook won’t be able to
    tally your “Likes.” It sucks to be radioactive rubble. Oh, and we
    still nuke you.

4.  **Portland Oregon and Seattle Washington**: Oregon and Washington
    would be relatively sane states if these tumors were excised:
    just saying. Oh, we still nuke your ass.

Kim, you can’t win but with judicious target selection, you can *make a
difference*. As a wise shoe maker once said: “Just do it!”
