
[iNap \#1: Enough 
People are Scum](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2018/05/17/inap-1-enough-people-are-scum/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 17 May 2018 20:45:27*

Intelligible systems are built on a few basic principles.[^1] While
reducing my dour skepticism to the memorable maxims that codify
[*Informed Naked Ape
Protocol*](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2018/05/08/informed-naked-ape-protocol/).
I repeatedly asked myself what animates unflagging skepticism? What
turns naturally cheerful and optimistic people like myself into raging
cynics? What motivates [noble
trolls](https://www.lifewire.com/types-of-internet-trolls-3485894) to
put down the pizza and grab the keyboard? *Only one answer sprang to
mind: other people.*

Regardless of your politics, gender, education, race, age, nationality,
or ethnicity, you have probably noticed there are a lot of scummy people
out there.

Why is this?

The answer derives from our evolution. Evolutionary advantages often
accrue to individuals that cheat. Cheating is a fundamental behavioral
adaptation that has been observed in many animal, bird and plant
species*. **Cheating is so common that cheating the system is the
system!*** How cheaters might benefit was best illustrated in the
hilarious [Ricky
Gervais](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0315041/?ref_=tt_ov_dr) movie [The
Invention of Lying](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1058017/). In Ricky’s
world, everybody told the truth until one day he discovered that you
could lie. The best scene in the film has Ricky running into a beautiful
woman on the street. He tells her that the world is doomed unless she
immediately agrees to have sex with him. Given the dire circumstances,
she instantly agrees to save the world. Clearly, liars are going to
enjoy immense reproductive success in a world of truth tellers.
Similarly, scumbags will profit in a world of purely honorable people.

We don’t live in a world of purely honorable people or purely scummy
people. Human scum density is complicated; it depends on more variables
than the weather. Nevertheless, we can infer that human scum density is
*seldom zero* and is *often appreciable*.

How big is appreciable?

My bitter sampling of humanity yields an estimate of approximately 0.05
for contemporary American society.[^2] It’s definitely bad news that 5%
of the people around you cannot be trusted or depended on. It’s even
worse news that human scum, like pond scum, often floats to the upper
echelons of society. This is a nasty reality and I wish it wasn’t so but
reality is often unpleasant and leaves few options: either adapt or be
crushed.

The first step in adapting to scummy naked apes is acknowledging the
most fundamental fact about them — *enough people are scum!*

[^1]: The human preference for systems with a few axioms is an artifact
    of our primitive intellects. There are few if any human beings that
    would be comfortable with axiomatic theories that depend on
    trillions of independent axioms yet we know that such systems exist
    and remain incomplete. Our drive to reduce things to a manageable
    set of rules, even when we know it is naïve and futile, amounts to
    little more than thumb-sucking. It makes our baby brains happy even
    if it will not solve our problems.

[^2]: Yes, human scum density varies with culture. Some societies are
    briefly more virtuous than others.
