
[Incoherent
Interstellar](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/11/10/incoherent-interstellar/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 11 Nov 2014 03:26:18*

Christopher Nolan has made some excellent commercially successful films
like
[Inception](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/07/28/the-20-seconds-that-ruined-inception/),
[The Dark Knight](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0468569/), and
[Mememto](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/memento/). When word got out
that he was working on a *serious* science fiction film expectations got
out of hand. Those of us old enough to remember the first screenings of
2001 thought maybe, just maybe, we might see something comparable to
Kubrick’s masterpiece. Well I am sorry to report that Interstellar is no
[2001](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/great-movie-2001-a-space-odyssey-1968);
it’s not even a [Blade Runner](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0083658/) or
Nolan’s own Inception. Interstellar is a giant, moderately entertaining,
incoherent mess.

Much has been made of [Kip Thorne’s](http://www.its.caltech.edu/~kip/)
involvement with Interstellar. The Black Hole depicted in Interstellar
is based on General Relativity calculations. Apparently the CGI
animators uncovered something unexpected in how a spinning Black Hole
drags light around it. We are told the Black Hole in Interstellar is the
[most technically accurate ever seen in the
movies](http://www.penny4nasa.org/2014/11/07/how-interstellar-black-hole-led-to-an-actual-scientific-discovery/).
Unfortunately, it’s the only technically accurate part of the whole damn
movie.

There is no point going over the
[boners](http://guycodeblog.mtv.com/2013/01/15/weird-boner-facts/) in
Interstellar. They are numerous, annoying, glaring, and embarrassing. If
you must torture yourself the [Bad
Astronomer](http://www.slate.com/articles/health\_and\_science/space\_20/2014/11/interstellar\_science\_review\_the\_movie\_s\_black\_holes\_wormholes\_relativity.html)
has catalogued Intersellar’s most egregious violations. Now I know what
you’re thinking. John, it’s a freaking sci-fi movie, lighten up! You’re
going on like a character on the [Big Bang
Theory.](http://www.cbs.com/shows/big\_bang\_theory/)

My answer to such ankle biters is simple. Science fiction is as an *Art
Form*. An art form has two equal components: art and form!  Art, without
form, is usually effete garbage, and form, without art, is an income tax
return. Greatness only emerges when the two are in perfect balance. The
first step in achieving balance is honoring the basic elements of the
form. So what are the basic elements of the *serious science fictio*n
form?

I’ve [gone over
this](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/09/01/pandoras-star-a-grand-sprawling-entertainment/)
before but clearly you weren’t paying attention. Serious science fiction
differs from fantasy in the way it treats reality. Serious science
fiction *is allowed a few departures* from physical reality. You can
assume wormholes connect different parts of the universe and that it’s
possible to safely traverse them but that’s it cowboy! Outside of
wormholes it’s physics as usual! This is the science part in science
fiction. Great science fiction strictly follows this mandate. Take 2001,
the exemplar of how this is done, anything non-obelisk related in 2001,
including HAL 9000, is completely and absolutely plausible. The obelisk
is the singular departure from reality in 2001.

Interstellar bombs because it often departs from physical reality for
the basest of reasons: advancing a clunky nap inducing plot. I cannot
abide such transgressions. It’s like watching a prima donna ballerina
stop in the middle of Swan Lake, drop her tutu, and take a dump on
stage. Now prima donna dumps may be entertaining but they’re not ballet.
Similarly, Interstellar has its [good
parts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wPiHQ37gXnE) but it’s not serious
science fiction. In my opinion Interstellar is a bigger disappointment
than
[Transcendence](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/18/whats-the-opposite-of-transcendence/)
and it makes we wonder if anyone in Hollyweird is capable of making
serious science fiction these days.
