 
[I Voted for Nothing](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/11/04/i-voted-for-nothing/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 04 Nov 2014 13:48:02*

I have just returned from another biannual exercise in futility: voting
in mid-term US elections. Once again my preferred candidate, *none of
the above*, was not on the ballot; so, once again, I held my nose and
did my best to sabotage the fetid dreams of the rotting things that
were. Any barely sentient ape knows that voting, especially in the
corrupt US system, is almost a complete waste of time. The choices we’re
presented with have been exquisitely gamed by armies of conniving
manipulative hacks all hell-bent on *not asking the important
questions.*

Behold your ballot: the primary process purged principled people leaving
a scummy residue of stunted subhuman choices. Most are ignorant
delusional leftists, grasping smarmy right-wing car salesmen, or
outright apolitical narcissist psychopaths. I wouldn’t cross the street
to pee on any of them. Where are assassins when you need them?

As bad as voting is the alternative, despotic rule, is still worse so I
always haul my cynically enlightened ass to the polls and do what I can
to erect roadblocks. I always vote for divided government by carefully
selecting bitter opposites. I will vote for Democrats, Republicans,
Libertarians, Independents, even Communists and Greens provided I can
pit them against someone they detest, abhor, loathe, hate, and want dead
on the other side. I want to minimize agreement and maximize conflict
because conflict always results in doing nothing, and nine times out of
ten, *doing nothing is vastly superior to political something.* So,
until we get some qualified candidates – don’t make me laugh it hurts;
it’s critical to vote in people who want to smash in their opponents
heads.

The original republican design of the US government recognized the
fundamental importance of doing nothing and divided government into
three coequal branches to prevent the political class from doing things
just for the hell of it! This basic design has degenerated into an
out-of-control executive, a cowardly self-serving congress, a swamped
navel gazing judiciary, and an ever-expanding underachieving overpaid
bureaucracy that *fills in the details on massive template laws* like
Obamacare. It doesn’t take much of a constitutional scholar to see that
this is not what the originators intended. Today we endure a massive,
bloated, expensive, inept, corrupt and stupid government run by
simpletons, parasites, and criminals.

Fortunately for us, government isn’t nearly as important as political
assholes of all stripes think it is! As long as ordinary citizens *can
buy off and safely ignore government* they will tolerate its existence.
So keep doing nothing boys and girls; it will keep your heads off the
bloody spikes you probably deserve.
