
[I WannaCry 
about the Plunging Quality of Evil Geniuses](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/05/17/i-wannacry-about-the-plunging-quality-of-evil-geniuses/) 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 18 May 2017 04:23:12*

I have something to confess; I have no patience or sympathy for idiots.
When imbeciles impale themselves on reality I smirk and guffaw. With
such a nasty attitude it won’t surprise you to learn that I really
enjoyed the recent [WannaCry
Ransomware](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WannaCry_ransomware_attack)
cyber attack. Judging from the mewling soiled diaper press you might
conclude civilization was dealt a death-blow and that idiot Trump is to
blame.

What really happened?

1.  The NSA “cataloged”[^1] security flaw in Windows XP and didn’t
    inform anyone.

2.  The flaw was leaked.

3.  Hackers exploited the flaw to infect old Windows computers.

4.  They encrypted files and tried to ransom victims using Bitcoin.

*It’s stupid all the way down!*

To begin, Windows XP is ancient. Microsoft spent years warning people to
upgrade to more current versions of Windows. The warnings went on for
years and years and years. Yet despite this relentless nagging an army
of morons refused to upgrade. Now these shiftless dolts are blaming
others.

“Microsoft should support obsolete crap forever for free.”

“Teresa May didn’t give us enough money to upgrade our computers.”

“What’s the point of rudimentary computer security when Trump is going
to nuke us?”

Most WannaCry victims are suffering self-inflicted wounds. Let’s hope
some of them bleed to death.

As for the NSA, that festering hive of evil geniuses, you would think
they would have learned something from the strong encryption battles and
the Snowden affair but apparently not. Judging from recent history the
NSA stands for NOT SECURE AGENCY. They’re leaking more than a
menstruating woman without sanitary napkins. The entire notion of
stockpiling software defects to use at a later date is cosmically stupid
because it presumes software is static. Software is always changing:
sometimes for good reasons. Your backdoor will probably close with the
next compiler or OS release. Some quality assurance drone may notice
your favorite backdoor and release a patch. This happens all the time,
just read the notices that accompany standard updates and patches. At
best stockpiling defects is a short-term tactical gimmick. Frankly, I
expect more from the deep thinkers at the NSA.

It’s sad but evil hacking geniuses still depend on dumb users. The odds
of obsolete, unsupported, and unpatched software being able to fend off
NSA hacks is low but it rapidly approaches zero when dimwitted dolts
respond to [phishing attacks](https://kb.iu.edu/d/arsf). How many “don’t
click on unsolicited links” warnings must be issued before corporate
cubicle warmers smarten up?

“But if I don’t click on this link I might miss consuming more useless
crap?”

Finally, using Bitcoin for ransom purposes is unbelievably stupid.

WannaCry hackers you’re using the wrong
[cryptocurrency](https://getmonero.org/home)!

The Bitcoin blockchain is darn close to a perfect forensic tool. Once a
transaction is recorded on the chain it can never be altered, erased,
denied or fudged. You’re dropping indestructible breadcrumbs. It’s an
audit trail on steroids. It’s like the idiot WannaCry hackers want to be
caught!

Many feeble minds still think Bitcoin is anonymous. This was sort of
true in the very early days of Bitcoin when nobody gave a shit about it
and no serious money was changing hands. The world has changed. Bitcoin
has been outperforming all fiat currencies for the last two years. A
single coin is now worth more the \$1,700 US – more than an ounce of
gold. Serious money is now changing hands in the Bitcoin universe and
when serious money is present the usual financial rapists and apex
predators, your local taxation authorities, descend like vultures on a
carcass.

Because the blockchain is immutable and open it’s relatively easy to
de-anonymize. An entire [software
industry](https://www.engadget.com/2016/07/06/startups-seek-to-de-anonymize-bitcoin-to-fight-crime/)
has sprung up to do just this. Once you associate a person with a
Bitcoin address you can easily and reliably follow the money.
De-anonymizing Bitcoin has been going on for years. I just assume the
entire blockchain is already de-anonymized which makes Bitcoin just
about the worst possible choice for ransoms.

Despite all the amusing stupidity on display here, the WannaCry hack has
inadvertently established a proper baseline test for an advanced privacy
preserving cryptocurrency. *A proper private and secure cryptocurrency
should be a nearly perfect money laundering tool!* I’m looking forward
to the day when real evil geniuses, not WannaCry wannabes, stage a
massive ransomware attack, collect a massive
[buttload](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=buttload) of
untraceable coin, and then spend it right under the noses of the word’s
taxation and intelligence agencies. When this glorious day arrives we,
the little wage slaves, the deplorables, the lumpen-proletariat, will
finally have some financial privacy! Remember, if your money isn’t free
then neither are you!

Until then I just WannaCry!

[^1]: It’s not clear they discovered the flaw but however it was found
    they withheld it.
