
[JOD goes into the Arctic Code Vault](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2020/08/17/jod-goes-into-the-arctic-code-vault/) 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 17 Aug 2020 15:18:28*

This was a pleasant surprise. A few weeks ago, I noticed this little
message on my [main GitHub page](https://github.com/bakerjd99).

> *Arctic Code Vault Contributor*

Curious, I hovered on the text and learned that a few of my open-source
repositories --- [JOD in particular](https://github.com/bakerjd99/jod)
--- had been archived in [GitHub's Arctic Code
Vault](https://github.blog/2020-07-16-github-archive-program-the-journey-of-the-worlds-open-source-code-to-the-arctic/).

*That sounded literally cool!*

The arctic code repository is what you would expect. Open-source code is
being preserved on [silver-halide
film](https://www.piql.com/githubs-code-now-stored-forever-on-piqlfilm/)
in the form of [QR codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code) deep in
the permafrost of a decommissioned coal mine on Svalbard in the
Norwegian arctic. The source code archive is close to the [global seed
bank](https://www.seedvault.no/); both archives have been set up to
preserve code and seeds for future generations.

Readers of this blog will be familiar with my [recurring
rants](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2010/12/06/soon-we-will-all-be-software-archeologists/)
about the outrageously short lifetimes of digital media. We are
constantly told that *once it's on the Internet it's there forever.* The
idea that information is safely stored on the Internet is pure dangerous
bullshit. If things are so permanent explain link rot, site closures,
file purges, censorship, copyright takedowns, account deletions, and all
the other "slings and arrows" online content suffers. The Internet is a
giant ephemeral froth: always bubbling, always changing, never constant;
it wasn't built to last, and it doesn't.

Fortunately, many people and organizations are aware of the *digital
archive problem*, and some, like the [Long Now
Foundation](http://longnow.org/) and the [Internet
Archive](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Archive), were involved
in the GitHub Arctic Code Vault project. The Arctic Code Vault is only
one of many planned archives. The archivists are employing the LOCKSS,
(lots of copies keep stuff safe), philosophy and plan on storing
archives in many formats in many locations. The most ambitious projects
envision off-planet stores. *SpaceX* has already launched copies of
[Asimov's *Foundation* novels into
space](https://techcrunch.com/2018/02/09/the-special-data-device-spacexs-falcon-heavy-sent-to-orbit-is-just-the-start/)
where they will be safe from [culture canceling
mobs](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2020/06/27/think_the_cancel_mobs_cant_get_any_worse_think_again.html)
for the foreseeable future.

And, just to make things absolutely clear, the biggest threat to all
archival projects is the mob. No matter how permanent your work
motivated mobs may destroy it. Mount Rushmore and the nearby [Crazy
Horse](https://crazyhorsememorial.org/) monument are gigantic sculptures
carved into hard granite on geologically stable mountains. Left alone
their faces will endure for tens of thousands of years. **They won't be
left alone!** There are already bitter seething little basement Marxists
calling for Rushmore's destruction. In 2020 attempts to destroy Rushmore
will land you in prison. Will the same hold in 2220, or 3020? You
honestly cannot say.

If you want something to last for millennia it must be replicated and
hidden. Saving open source code on stable film rolls and stashing them
on a hard to get to island in the high arctic is a good first step but
like Long Now's [10,000 Year
Clock](http://www.10000yearclock.net/learnmore.html) project the mere
fame of these endeavors endangers their long-term survival. Never
underestimate the viciousness of hate-driven mobs.

We cannot control the future but we can make it hard for future
generations to forget us. That's why it's absolutely essential to create
a low cost, highly durable, and compact means of archiving large volumes
of digital data. If we all cached billions of digital archives all over,
and off the Earth, the memory holing mobs of the future will be left
with a monumental task to silence us.
