
[JOD Update: 
J 8.02 QT/JHS/64 bit Systems](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/06/14/jod-update-j-8-02-qtjhs64-bit-systems/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 14 Jun 2014 22:29:17*

I have pushed out a [JOD
update](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/the-jod-page/) that makes it
possible to run the addon on J 8.02 systems. In the last eight months a
[QT](http://qt-project.org/) based [J
IDE](http://www.jsoftware.com/jwiki/Guides/Qt%20IDE) has been developed
that runs on Linux, Windows and Mac platforms. To maintain JOD’s
compatibility across all versions of J from 6.02 on I had to tweak a few
verbs.

The only significant changes are how JOD interacts with various J system
editors. I have tested the system on Windows J 6.02, J 7.01, J 8.02, and
Mac J 7.01 systems. I expect it will behave on 32 and 64 bit Linux
systems from J 7.01 on, but I have yet to test these setups. My hardware
budget limits my ability to run common variants of Windows, Linux and
Mac systems.

JOD is still not complete; that’s why the version number has not been
bumped past 1.0.0. The missing features are noted in the table of
contents of [jod.pdf](https://app.box.com/shared/gajfu50gc0), (also
available in the [joddocument
addon](http://www.jsoftware.com/jwiki/Addons/general/joddocument)), with
the suffix “NIMP,” which means “not implemented.” I will fill in these
blanks as I need them. Most of the time JOD meets my needs so don’t hold
your breath.

If you want to make your own additions to JOD [the
program](https://github.com/bakerjd99/jod) and [documentation
source](https://github.com/bakerjd99/joddoc) is available on GitHub.
Just follow the links and enjoy.

As a last note: I will be at the [J Conference in Toronto (July 24 and
25, 2014)](http://www.jsoftware.com/jwiki/Community/Conference2014)
where I will be giving a short presentation and handing out a few
hardcopy versions of the JOD manual to one or two JOD fans.
