[Joe Biden = Intelligence Failure](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2021/08/27/joe-biden-intelligence-failure/) {#joe-biden-intelligence-failure .unnumbered}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 27 Aug 2021 19:18:34*

Joe Biden, the demented imbecile in the White House, recently had his,
"it will go away like a miracle" (Trump) moment. His, "the rise of the
oceans began to slow" (Obama) moment. His, "mission accomplished" (Bush)
moment. His, "I did not have sex with that woman" (Clinton) moment. And
his, "I'm not a crook" (Nixon) moment, and boy was it a doozy! *The
image of desperate Afghans falling off a plane bugging out of Kabul will
be the single defining image of the Biden years.* The global garbage
media will attempt to divert the pig-dog-public's attention, and they
may even enjoy some short-term success, but fuckups of this magnitude
cannot be memory-holed.

I feel sorry for the Afghans, but I'm enjoying watching all this blow up
in Biden's moronic face. Unlike many, I was never taken in by his folksy
charm and carefully curated common-man touch. It was always a facade to
cover the vacuum within. How many times have we listened to this dipshit
curry favor with tales of his poor son's cancer death? Hey Joe, roughly
one-third of the American public can bore strangers with similar
stories. My own mother died a far more horrific cancer death than your
son and I don't use her sad fate to garner sympathy. You should be
ashamed of using your dead son as a political prop.

Now, Joe, I know this is not all your fault. The incompetent
intelligence agencies that allegedly serve you share the blame. It seems
that American intelligence agencies[^7221x1] produce nothing
but "Intelligence Failures." How many times have they egregiously
screwed up in recent decades? How many heads of the CIA, FBI, ATF, et
cetera have been sacked for gross incompetence? *Why any of the nitwits
supposedly in charge of the Afghanistan withdrawal still have jobs is
entirely on you Joe!* Unless there are severe, immediate, and
career-ending consequences for "Intelligence Failures" you can expect
more of the same.

[^7221x1]: American Intelligence Agency, talk about an oxymoron.
