[King Hobbit
Kong](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/12/16/king-hobbit-kong/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 16 Dec 2012 22:24:06*

The pre-Hobbit hum was not harmonious. It started with the [interminable
legal
battle](http://www.nydailynews.com/blogs/pageviews/2012/11/law-of-the-rings-producers-of-the-hobbit-face-epic-legal-battle-alongside-world-pr)
over who would direct the Hobbit and how to split any spoils. After
Peter Jackson’s cinematic Lord of the Rings triumph people assumed he
would be The Hobbit guy but an envious and embittered clique of
Tolkien’s heirs felt the weren’t getting enough for their stuff and
filed suit demanding more. For some reason the spoiled progeny of the
famous and accomplished think they’re entitled to feed on their glorious
ancestor’s corpse — oops estate — forever. We’ve seen enough of this in
the US with the idiot Kennedy clan: none of whom I would trust to
[drive](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/politics/special/clinton/frenzy/kennedy.htm)
or
[fly](http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-21/us/9907\_21\_kennedy.plane.06\_1\_wreckage-piper-saratoga-ii-body?\_s=PM:US)
me anywhere. Even white-bread, holier than thou Canada, cannot shake
this affliction. Look at [Justin
Trudeau](http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/story/2012/12/03/pol-trudeau-gun-registry-failed-policy.html)
— living on his father’s fame and full of it right up to his naturally
curly eyebrows. Go back far enough and we all have glorious ancestors;
unfortunately, this entitles us to *precisely squat* which, in a just
universe, would constitute the sum total of royalties due to the current
parasitic Tolkien generation.

Once the legalities settled and Jackson got control of the project
ominous stories started swirling about “changes” to The Hobbit. One
particularly disturbing rumor had Legolas making an appearance. Funny,
I’ve read the Hobbit twice and *missed him in the book!* Whenever people
start “improving classics” I get very wary. I’m sure the Hobbit screen
writers are very smart and capable but they haven’t written a literary
classic. If Legolas shows his pointy little ears in The Hobbit they
should put bags over their heads and go into hiding *for their own
safety.*

After the legalities and plot rumors the
[technology](http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2403746,00.asp) of The
Hobbit made news. The Hobbit was shot at 48 frames per second: twice the
standard rate. This was allegedly done to improve 3D projection. The
biggest complaint about 3D movies, *other than that they are 3D movies*,
is that they’re dim and fuzzy. Why this surprises anyone astonishes me.
Hey, I’ve got an idea, let’s watch our three hundred million dollar
movie through cheap, dark, optically flawed, polarized, throw-away
plastic glasses. What could go wrong? The stupidity of hollyweirdos is
boundless but what do you expect from [Obama
worshippers](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/27/jamie-foxx-obama-lord-and-savior-furor-soul-train-awards\_n\_2199439.html).
It’s been claimed that 48 frames per seconds allows 3D projectors to
present 24 frames per second to each eye and increase projection
brightness, compensating for the those cheap dark glasses, without
introducing an annoying flicker that plagues lower frame rates. We shall
soon see if this is the case or just more Hollywood bullshit. Still, it
would have been nice to test this technology on [standard cinematic
crap](http://www.movieinsider.com/movies/worst/2012/) before subjecting
classics to it.

Finally, if all of the above wasn’t enough, The Hobbit, by far the
shortest of the famous Tolkien books, is being split into two, maybe
three films, with the first installment running around three freaking
hours. Wasn’t Jackson the guy that took a short, tight, beloved film
classic, the [original King
Kong](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King\_Kong\_(1933\_film)), and blew
it up into a gigantic, tedious, overwrought, hemorrhoid inducing bore
that was gutted in less than ten seconds by [Robot
Chicken](http://video.adultswim.com/robot-chicken/just-the-good-parts.html)!
Yes the pre-Hobbit hum was not harmonious so I wasn’t expecting much
when I plopped my discerning ass in my cinema seat and braced for The
Hobbit.

Then three hours passed.

So what’s the verdict? I’ll try to do this without profanity. First a
few warnings:

1.  If you have read and enjoyed The Lord of the Rings but haven’t read
    the Hobbit **do not see this film until you have read the book!**
    The book will not spoil the film but the film will spoil the book.

2.  If you’re a parent, looking to entertain your sucrose saturated
    children over the holidays, and you take them to The Hobbit, *before
    they get a chance to read the book*, you might as well go whole hog
    and tell them, there’s no Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny does not lay
    hardboiled colored eggs, the Tooth Fairy is mom and dad and little
    children don’t go to an imaginary heaven when they die; they’re just
    dead.

With that out-of-the-way I will publicly confess to enjoying the film
labeled “The Hobbit.” Yes, my worst fears materialized on an epic scale.
This is not, “The Hobbit,” but rather Hobbit inspired. So many artistic
liberties were taken that I predict a rash of [Hobbit, or not
Hobbit](http://www.librarything.com/topic/146051), critiques will flood
the
[intertubes](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=intertubes).
The story unfolds with a leaden, worst camping trip ever, pace and even
the best scene in the movie, when Bilbo wins his riddle contest with
Gollum and makes off with “the precious” ring is tedious. The famous
*time* riddle comes across as a mood-lighting lighting aside and is so
far removed from the brilliance of the book that it would have been
better to just omit it, but you could say the same for at least half
the scenes in this movie.

As I left the cinema surrounded by subdued teenagers, many of whom where
commenting on how, “that wasn’t like the book,” I wondered who is this
film for? Then it hit me. This is for the fantasy role-playing video
game crowd. Many kids spend days immersed in these games. They’re used
to laconic meandering pointless plot lines. This demographic will find
The Hobbit tight, on plot, and will delight in the impressive special
effects. Smaug does have beautiful eyes and I really enjoyed the wood
trolls. I would have *positively loved* this film if the trolls had
eaten the dwarves on the spot and then followed it up with a celebrity
chef panel discussion. Maybe we’ll get lucky in Hobbit 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
….
