[Laws or
Suggestions](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/09/13/laws-or-suggestions/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 13 Sep 2009 21:15:38*

The other day while torturing myself with CNN I heard [Henry
Waxman](http://waxman.house.gov/), that living argument for
congressional term limits, tell us that the new, all singing and
dancing, US health care bill would not fund abortions or pick up the tab
for illegal immigrants. Maybe Henry is telling the truth, hey it could
happen, pigs can fly if they’re dropped high enough, but I suspect Henry
is confused about laws and suggestions.

*Laws* come in many forms and flavors but all laws mathematical,
scientific and legal have a common trait: *enforcement*. Mathematical
laws, theorems if you will, are self enforcing. If you accept the
fundamentals or axioms of a theory and adhere to clear logical rules of
inference you don’t have a choice about accepting valid results or
proofs. A sure sign of *crankhood* is the steadfast refusal to accept
mathematical results. To this day we still run into [circle
squarers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squaring\_the\_circle). They’re a
dying breed and I find their insanity kind of cute. If only $\pi$ was an
[algebraic number](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/AlgebraicNumber.html)
there would be hope but fortunately it’s
[transcendental](http://sprott.physics.wisc.edu/Pickover/trans.html) and
there isn’t. Even the FSM, ([Flying Spaghetti
Monster](http://www.venganza.org/) — or God for you fundamentalists),
cannot square the circle with a straight edge and compass; it’s an
absolute impossibility. Mathematical laws are not [girly
men](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/1559749/Girly-men-are-perfect-partners-say-women.html).
They’re tough enough for any neighborhood and won’t back down even for
deities.

Scientific laws also police themselves. You aren’t going to build a
perpetual motion machine, get colder than absolute zero, force mass
faster than the speed of light or convince a stubborn coin that its past
has any bearing on the next toss. Nature is a tough cop and she isn’t
going to take crap from anyone. Mathematical and scientific laws are
called laws because you are forced to obey. Law and enforcement is
symmetrical; you don’t get one without the other.

When we enter the legal domain this symmetry breaks down.
**Legislatures, parliaments and dictators can pass any law they want but
unless they enforce it it’s not a law; it’s a *suggestion*.** Have you
ever driven down the freeway at the speed limit and watched all the
cars, even the ones driven by little old ladies, zip past you? Are all
these drivers breaking the law? In some looney legal universe yes; in
the real one they are *ignoring the suggested speed limit.* *Without
cops there are no speeders!*

As a matter of personal policy I ignore all *legal* suggestions. I only
obey enforced laws. Without parking tickets I would always park in the
handicapped spots; they’re more convenient. Without the IRS I wouldn’t
pay a dime of taxes. Without prisons I would steal with impunity. I’m
not a bad person just an honest one. *Human legalities only become law
when enforced.* Now Henry’s health bill may contain verbiage forbidding
payments for abortions and illegals but unless they’re is a
corresponding, rigorous and funded enforcement regime to insure that
Henry’s suggestions become laws he’s just spouting bullshit.
