 
[Lens Lust](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/09/22/lens-lust/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 22 Sep 2009 19:34:40*

I suffer from a common and debilitating condition commonly referred to
as NEM: ***Not Enough Money!*** NEM imposes all sorts of conditions and
hardships on its victims. In my case NEM limits my lens lust. Without
NEM I would have warehouses full of the finest cameras and lenses but as
a lowly *NEMite* I am forced to choose wisely.

For months I have had my eye on the Nikon *f1.8 35mm AFS DX* prime. My
logical reasons for lusting after this lens are:

1.  I have a DX format Nikon AFS DSLR.

2.  The FOV, (field of view), of standard 50mm lenses mounted on DX
    cameras is to narrow: 35mm is about right.

3.  *f3.5*, the standard kit lens aperture, is simply not fast enough.

4.  My *NEMly* budget is limited.

5.  Modestly priced prime lenses often out perform far more expensive
    zooms.

6.  I have had good results from prime lenses in the past.

[Image link: AFS f1.8 35mm](http://bakerjd99.files.wordpress.com/2009/09/6502514431.jpg)

I knew I wanted a lens like this even before Nikon started offering it.
For the last three years legions of Nikon users have been waiting for
modern, reasonably priced, AFS primes. During our long wait it seemed
like every Nikon lens announcement was another chintzy *slow* starter
zoom or a ridiculously overpriced fast zoom. When the global economy
went in the tank *this* lens appeared. My first thought; they’re
offering something that people will actually buy in a recession.

After the *f1.8 35* appeared buying one proved difficult. Remember
those legions of Nikon users: lots of them wanted this lens. For months
you couldn’t find this item in stock anywhere. The other day I read that
it was available at [B & H](http://www.bhphotovideo.com/) so I hopped
online and ordered instantly.

So how does it work?

It’s apparent from the raw *[NEF](http://filext.com/file-extension/NEF)*
files that it’s sharper and renders straight lines better than the kit
18-55mm lens. The *f1.8* also does something I have dearly missed. If
you crank open the aperture you can produce a nice blurred background:
[bokeh](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bokeh) baby!

[Image link: Bluffton clown](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Places/USA-and-Canada/Indiana-Images/fair-ride-clown/658078084_xiMcn-S.jpg)
