[Let’s Hang
Congress](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/12/07/lets-hang-congress/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 07 Dec 2009 19:34:01*

As Mark Twain once rudely noted:

> *It could probably be shown by facts and figures that there is no
> distinctly native American criminal class except Congress.*

Regardless of your political or sexual orientation it’s hard to
disagree. The current Congress is the largest collection of brain-dead
fuckwits since the previous Congress and no doubt the next Congress will
be even worse. What’s a bereaved citizen to do?

How about the simple obvious solution: *let’s hang everyone in
Congress!* It’s simple, direct and effective. Left wingers will be
delighted because a lot of right wingers will hang. Right wingers will
be delighted because even more left wingers will hang. Independents will
be thrilled because left and right wingers will hang.

Now I know what you are thinking, “If we hang Congress won’t it be more
difficult to find people to run for office?” I have to agree; hanging
doesn’t seem like much of an incentive. We have to strike a balance
between hanging and the grotesque perks of Congress.

Currently there are 535 members of Congress. Let’s get a big jar of
jelly beans and number the beans from 0 to 534.

    0, 1, 2, 3, ..., 534

Then every year, instead of listening to boring State of the Union
speeches, we hold a public drawing. Some lucky blindfolded child,
*[(because we are doing it for the
children),](http://captaincapitalism.blogspot.com/2009/12/please-stop-it-with-think-of-children.html)*
will reach in the jar and grab a bean. If the bean is numbered 0 we hang
everyone in Congress. If another number comes up it’s back to the trough
for another year.

The [typical member of Congress serves about ten
years:](http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v\&q=cache:P925W\_GMcNwJ:www.senate.gov/reference/resources/pdf/RS22007.pdf+congress+term+average\&hl=en\&gl=us\&pid=bl\&srcid=ADGEESi6G0dwq2fAncmpqw--WUWGaARLZ2-1yYqExeYvjf\_P7ByhvGUlDSKP\_3sbbXFiMfjp6drsojRfNfILIRBkIl1L7ghstd6yoUirPblHoXFco1Q7gFEbNMKtQa55-cEjaT-MkuDi\&sig=AHIEtbSGxJ45QmhPawXiT2TOiB7zpp5u2A)
thank you Google. What are the chances the average member will swing?
This is easy to compute. Generate 10 random integers between 0 and 534
and see if 0 pops up. In the [J programming
language](http://www.jsoftware.com/):

       ? 10 $ 535

    195 467 514 498 79 345 306 344 450 530

This lucky Congress critter survived. If we run this experiment ten
million times we get:

      10000000 %~ +/ 0 e."0 1 ? 10000000 10 $ 535

    0.0185448

or a 2% chance of hanging. Considering the prerogatives, pork, perks,
and pensions of Congress a measly 2% chance of hanging seems about
right. Most of the time it’s business as usual and every now and them
the public enjoys the spectacle of *terminal term limits.*
