 
[Mahin and Carl](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/02/08/mahin-and-carl/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 08 Feb 2015 20:59:53*

On the very memorable date of New Year’s Eve my wife’s mother Mahin
died. From now on the dropping ball will remind us of her. Mahin had a
long and honorable life. She was loved by children, grandchildren, and
in-laws. She was the calm matriarch in the storm of her family. I meet
her late in life after marrying her daughter Mali. Mahin was almost
eighty then and still living on her own. She liked me and regretted
having a son-in-law that she couldn’t talk to. In the 1980s Mahin
followed her children out of the chaos of Khomeini’s revolutionary Iran.
She settled in Canada in her late sixties taking on a new country, a
foreign language and a new way of life. It would have been a big change
for a young person but for someone of Mahin’s age it was almost heroic.
She got on, adjusted, learned enough English to function, but not enough
to properly talk to son-in-laws, and enjoyed life. She never manifested
a trace of bitterness or self-pity. She was a strong woman.

In her later years Mahin suffered from dementia. Her children took turns
helping her out. We were the last to look after her. She lived with us
for nearly two years. Mahin and I similar tastes for the absurd. We both
enjoyed the idiotic television show
[Wipeout](https://abc.go.com/shows/wipeout). Being knocked on your ass
works equally well in English and Farsi. We’d laugh at people plunging
into gigantic vats of goo. Dementia slowly ate away at Mahin’s mind.
Eventually she required twenty-four care and her daughters placed her in
a nursing home in Toronto. They agonized over putting her in a home and
did what they could to make her life comfortable. Mali stayed with her
sister Sedi in Toronto five months last year to look after Mahin. She
went to the nursing home every day to feed her, give her baths, do her
laundry and talk to her. Dementia claimed Mahin’s English. Nursing home
staff could not talk to her or understand her. Mali and her sisters were
very fortunate to find a sitter that spoke Farsi. Hiring nursing home
sitters is more common than you would think. Many of the residents in
Mahin’s home had sitters.

Mahin died surrounded by children, grandchildren, her sitter, and
nursing home staff. Home staff told my wife and her sisters that
everyone loved Mahin. I am sure they tell many families something
similar but having known Mahin I don’t doubt their sincerity. Mahin was
a sweet dignified lady to her last breath.

A week before Mahin died I learned from my ex-wife that Carl, an old
mutual friend, was in a Calgary hospice and not expected to live out the
month. I’m not a particularly friendly person. Oh, I’m pleasant enough
and can, when motivated, skillfully navigate social milieus. If you work
with me you might even think I am your friend. I’m not! I’m reluctant to
form deep friendships. Entering my sixties I can count my real friends
on my fingers. Carl was the best friend I ever had. For nearly twenty
years, from high school, until the birth of my daughter, Carl was a
happy presence in my life.

Carl was a happy presence in the lives of everyone that got to know him
and could tolerate his manifold eccentricities. He was everyone’s crazy
uncle and he relished the role. Since leaving western Canada I moved out
of Carl’s orbit. We’d trade the odd letter, email, and in recent years,
Facebook posts. On the few times that I passed through Calgary I’d
always look him up. We’d fall right back into old days blithering.
Hearing that he was dying of the nasty form of prostate cancer was a
jolt.

Mali petitioned me to call him right away. “You better call before it’s
too late.”

I was reluctant because I don’t know what to say to the dying. I missed
saying goodbye to my paternal grandfather and I botched my last
conversation with my mother. Christopher Hitchens recounts some of the
awkward conversations he had with friends and colleagues while dying of
cancer in his last book
[Mortality](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13529055-mortality). Many
avoided the sword overhead while others swung it callously. Hitchens
didn’t know what to feel. None of their goodbyes really helped.

I called Carl more for myself than him. Carl took a few moments to
recall who I was. He was understandably more depressed than I had ever
heard him. He was also vague and struggling to respond. Pain medications
dull more than pain. I asked if family and friends were about. We aren’t
comfortable with people dying alone which is strange because no matter
how many friends and family members surround us we all die alone. The
only hint of the old Carl that came out our chat was when he referred to
Nazar: a very old friend that we both enjoyed making fun of. Before
hanging up I told Carl I would check in on him later but later never
came. He died less than two weeks later.

Death is the most serious thing that will ever happen to us. It
forecloses on what’s next. We simply cease! There is no childish heaven
or burning hell. We are not reincarnated and we don’t see ghosts or talk
to the dead. If you think or believe otherwise you are simply wrong. I
won’t argue with you. I am tired of your irrational objections, your
contemptible myths, and your weakness in the face of oblivion. The
human machine wears out and breaks down. We don’t imagine afterlives for
our cars so why do we indulge such fantasies for ourselves. As much as I
would like to see Mahin, Carl, my mother, or anyone of the hundred
billion people who have already died, again I won’t and neither will
you!
