 
[Minnie’s Pictures](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/10/16/minnies-pictures/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 17 Oct 2013 03:11:52*

[Minnie E. Raver 1881-1977](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver/i-k6pnSJ4/A).

While going through my late mother’s pictures I came across a box of my
great-grandmother Minnie’s old photographs. When my great-grandmother
died in 1977 my grandmother
[Hazel](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Grandparents-1/i-PBjmr7p/A)
took her pictures and stuffed them in her [Hoarder’s
level](http://www.aetv.com/hoarders/) junk filled basement.[^4230a] After
Hazel’s death [my
mother](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/i-Z64DmrR/A)
recovered Minnie’s pictures from Hazel’s hoard and promptly filed them
with her pictures where they remained until I found them. Minnie’s
pictures have already seen off three generations of my ancestors and I’m
next in line. Are they worth it?

Many of Minnie’s pictures are over a hundred years old. The oldest
probably date to the 1870’s or 1880’s. Despite their age they’re in
excellent condition. Obviously Minnie took care of her pictures and
thankfully Montana basements and attics are often high and dry. I spent
an entire day studying Minnie’s pictures. Her old portraits are superb
examples of small studio 19^th^ and early 20^th^ century photography,
see the following [wedding
portrait](https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.1.1/F3SR-Q8S), and her
snapshots are candid shots of the people she knew and loved. All of
which brings me to my current problem. *I don’t know who these people
are!*

[Callie Davis and Frank Smelser wedding 1905](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver/i-Z7tfbBJ/A).

I have never had much of an interest in family trees or the entire
quasi-delusional undertaking of genealogical research for the simple
reason that most of it is bullshit. *The basic genealogical problem is
simple: people have always screwed around and then lied about it.* When
you get right down to it you cannot be certain, without DNA testing,
that your own parents are your biological parents. There are good
reasons to suspect that at least [1% to 5% of
children](http://www.washingtoncitypaper.com/articles/8308/to-have-and-to-cuckold)
result from cuckolding and for some social classes it may be as high as
30%. In other words your daddy may not be who you think it is!
Cuckolding varies with culture, time, socio-economic status and so forth
but it’s rarely zero. A cuckolding rate of 5% implies that by the time
you’ve traced your ancestors to the great-great-grandparent level there
is a 19% chance that an alleged, perfectly documented, ancestor is not
really an ancestor. By the time we get back to the time of Christ,
roughly 100 generations, there’s a 99.99% chance that any alleged
ancestor is not really any ancestor. Genealogy without DNA is a hollow
dead-end.

As bad as cuckolding is it’s the least of our genealogical problems.
Genealogical records are incomplete, contain serious errors and are
often complete frauds. As late as the 19^th^ century the settlement of
estates was very sensitive to birth order. If you were a first-born son
you got everything while your baby brother got squat. It was even worse
for women; they got less than squat. In such an environment there is a
powerful incentive to forge records. Old handwritten documents may look
official to modern eyes but you cannot assume they’re accurate. With a
well-placed bribe first-born Johnnie suddenly disappears from the
record. *People have always lied about the important things.*

Given all these obvious problems I usually ignore people going on about
the exploits of their glorious ancestors. Your roots are unreliable
people! You really don’t know who your great-great-great granny was and
if you insist on telling tales about her I will insist on DNA evidence.
I know that many of the dead in Minnie’s pictures are *probably* blood
relatives and some are probably direct great-great or greater
grandparents. I cannot be 100% sure they’re genetic ancestors but I can
follow obvious document breadcrumbs and learn enough about these people
to attach stories to their pictures.

I wasn’t looking forward to the giant chore of scanning, restoring and
researching Minnie’s pictures[^4230b] but following breadcrumbs was more
interesting than expected. It turns out that there’s a lot of dead
people on the internet. When I started looking for death and marriage
records I immediately came across a cemetery record for [my own recently
deceased
mother](http://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr\&GSln=baker\&GSfn=evelyn+\&GSmn=v\&GSbyrel=all\&GSdyrel=all\&GSst=28\&GScnty=1627\&GScntry=4\&GSob=n\&GRid=110246189\&df=all\&).
It was surprising to find her so soon. There’s an active
world-wide ghoulish group of people photographing cemetery monuments and
posting their findings online. It’s ironic but a [Facebook for the
dead](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Find\_a\_Grave) preceded the Facebook
for the living. Starting with my mother I backtracked through my alleged
ancestors looking for a “Lydia.”  “Lydia” was scrawled on the back of
what looked like the oldest of Minnie’s pictures.

[Lydia Jane Ayres 1839-unknown](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver/i-FWtqBg4/A).

If the records are correct I believe this “Lydia” is Lydia Jane Ayres.
There is a very good chance that Lydia is one of my great-great
grandmothers. [Lydia married Albert F.
Raver](https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.1.1/XLPB-DF8) in 1863 in Brant
Ontario. Albert was the mother of Minnie’s husband [Bert
Raver](https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.1.1/F3Q3-45X).

I didn’t find any pictures of Albert Raver in Minnie’s collection and
that’s too bad because I suspect Albert had an eye for the babes. I
looked for his death record and found this [confusing census
entry](https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.1.1/MVLY-WLB). Here was an
Albert F. Raver with exactly the same age and birth origin remarried to
a Lydia L. Raver. At first I thought it was a mistake but Albert’s
marriage to Lydia L. Ayres was in 1906. That did not compute. Then I
remembered a story my grandmother Hazel told me years ago when we were
talking about her grandparents. She told me that one of her grandfathers
married twice to two women with the same first and last names. She
complained about how difficult this made sorting Christmas and birthday
cards. I cannot remember if the name was Lydia Ayres but what are the
chances? It seems Albert married  Lydia Jane Ayres in 1863. Somehow they
parted ways and later, at the age of 68, Albert remarried in 1906 a
younger Lydia L. Ayres. Having been divorced and remarried myself I can
only marvel at Albert’s ingenuity. The last thing you want to do in your
senile dotage is call a second wife by your first wife’s name. Before
social security that could have been a fatal mistake. [Randy old
Albert](http://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr\&GRid=89404051)
neatly dodged that bullet.

The randiness was not confined to the Raver branch. Equally intriguing
is this old portrait of “dad’s old sweetheart.” Here Minnie is likely
referring to her own father and my great-great granddaddy [Howell Cobb
Davis](http://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr\&GSln=Davis\&GSfn=Howell\&GSmn=C\&GSby=1850\&GSbyrel=after\&GSdy=1950\&GSdyrel=before\&GSst=28\&GScntry=4\&GSob=n\&GRid=67837689\&df=all\&).
Screwing around, contrary to boomer mythology, wasn’t invented in the
1960’s.

[“dad’s old sweetheart” - probably an old girlfriend of Howell C. Davis](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver/i-GGmLK2W/A).

Minnie lived to 96. I was in my twenties when she died so I remember
some of the people in her snapshots. Here’s Minnie with her [first-born
son
Vernon](http://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr\&GRid=61581142)
standing in Marble Canyon Arizona in 1949. I knew Vernon as a boy. He
always posed exactly like you see him her.

[Vernon and Minnie Raver Marble Canyon Arizona 1949](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver/i-DTmc5Zb/A).

You can read the poor guys mind. “Do you really need another picture?
Well if that’s how it’s going be I’m going to assume my petulant spoiled
fat boy pose.” You cannot blame Vernon. His photographic life got off to
a dreadful start. Look at this gem.

[Vernon F. Raver 1904-1964](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver/i-pms8BTb/A).

In the early 20^th^ century women liked to dress up their baby boys as
girls. Vernon got the full girly treatment. You cannot blame him for
being scarred for life after such trauma. Here’s a clue ladies. Boys are
not girls. Gender is not arbitrary. People that assert the contrary are
idiots. Sorry if that sounds like
[mansplaining](http://www.policymic.com/articles/44479/mansplaining-101-how-to-discuss-politics-and-feminism-without-acting-like-a-jackass); the
truth is not always polite.

I doubt I’ll ever get through Minnie’s pictures. There are hundreds of
images to scan, restore and research. I just don’t have the time or
energy but in the years ahead I will occasionally pick out and upload
attractive images. Here’s [the gallery to
follow](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Minnie-Raver) if you’re
interested.

[^4230a]: If Hazel was alive today she would be a star on TV’s Hoarders.

[^4230b]: Despite their good condition it was still a lot of work to restore
    the images posted here. To judge what I had contend with browse this
    gallery of [before and after
    diptychs](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Manipulations/Restorations-1).
