
[My Father's Obituary](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2021/02/21/my-fathers-obituary/) 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 21 Feb 2021 20:22:48*

*The following is an obituary I wrote for my recently deceased father.
The original was posted the on the [Franzen Davis Funeral
Home](https://www.franzen-davis.com/obituaries/Franklin-Burdick-Baker?obId=19950108)
website. This version incorporates some minor adjustments and
corrections that were noted by my brother.*

Franklin Burdick Baker, age 87, of Las Vegas formerly of Bozeman, died
on Tuesday morning February 9^th^, 2021 at Nathan Adelson Hospice in Las
Vegas Nevada. His son John and his daughter-in-law Malihe were at his
side when he died. A celebration of Franks's Life will be held Friday,
February 26th at Franzen-Davis Funeral Home in Livingston Montana.

Frank was born in Livingston Montana on September 15^th^, 1933. He was
the only surviving child of Frank A. Baker and Helen (Burdick) Baker
also of Livingston Montana. Frank grew up in Livingston and graduated
from Park High School in 1951. In high school Frank used the name Dick
Baker, he was also known as "Whoa-Whoa," (see Park High's *1951 Ranger*
yearbook). For a few years, his future wife Evelyn (Eggar) Baker, lived
kitty-corner to Frank's home on South Fifth Street. Frank and Evelyn met
as children and married as very young adults: Frank was twenty and
Evelyn was a few days shy of eighteen. Shortly after their marriage
Frank and Evelyn moved to Butte Montana where Frank studied Petroleum
Engineering at the then Montana School of Mines (now Montana Tech).
While in Butte two of Frank's surviving children were born: John and
Aileen. Frank and Evelyn's third child Steve was born a few years later
in Moab Utah.

Frank graduated from Montana Tech in 1956 and started his long and
successful Petroleum Engineering career in Rangely Colorado. For the
next forty years, Frank drilled for oil all over the world. He
wildcatted all over the western US. Brought in some massive 60 thousand
barrel-a-day wells in southern Iran, worked in the -40C weather of
Canadian winters, drilled deep offshore in Scotland, Norway, Indonesia,
and South Korea. Frank progressed from a young engineer babysitting
wildcat wells to managing large offshore drilling operations involving
hundreds of people. By all accounts, Frank was an exemplary drilling
engineer and was proud of his work.

When not working Frank was probably on the golf course. In his prime
Frank was a scratch golfer; that's shooting par for you duffers. When he
wasn't playing golf he was watching it. In 1960 he was on the 18^th^
green at Cherry Hills watching Arnold Palmer score a dramatic win in the
US Open. Frank was also a capable basketball and baseball player. He was
invited by the St. Louis Browns, a then major league baseball team to
try out for their minor league affiliate but his mother wouldn't have
it. Professional sports weren't dignified enough!

Outside of work and play Frank was a proud father. He and his wife
Evelyn raised three children: John, Aileen, and Steven Baker. They, in
turn, gave Frank four grandchildren, Brianna, Helen, Amanda, and Jacob
and five great-grandchildren all of whom survive and miss him. Frank is
now free to join his pre-deceased wife Evelyn.

Frank will be interred in Mountain View Cemetery beside his wife Evelyn.
