
[Neowise Nostalgia](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2020/08/03/neowise-nostalgia/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 03 Aug 2020 21:47:46*

[Comet Neowise](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C/2020_F3_(NEOWISE)) is
fading fast. For the last two weeks, I've been watching Neowise climb
higher and higher in the early evening northwestern sky. Neowise was a
welcome sight in this shit-storm (2020) year. Gazing at its diffuse tail
takes your mind off the Wuhan Coronavirus[^6024x1] and the global, mostly
self-inflicted, economic clusterfuck it caused.

In 16x70 binoculars Neowise was a fine sight; its bifurcated tail
spanned the entire field of view but, without binoculars, Neowise was a
dud for my cataract compromised eyes. Despite my best *averted-vision*
efforts I never saw it without binoculars. So, as fine as Neowise was,
it comes in last on my lifetime comet list. For a longtime amateur
astronomer, my lifetime comet list is embarrassingly short. Here it is:

**Comet Bennet 1970 near Canmore Alberta Canada**

My first naked eye comet was a complete surprise. I was returning from a
spring break Vancouver trip with two, now deceased, friends, Carl
Sullivan and Lawrence Nazar. It was past midnight, we had just driven
through Banff National Park on the way to Calgary when we pulled over to
pee. While pissing on crusty highway shoulder snow we looked up at the
mountains to the south. Shining high above the dark peaks was the most
beautiful comet I've ever seen. At the time we didn't know the comet's
name and we weren't entirely sure it was a comet. It was just too
perfect! It looked exactly like a textbook comet. Later, another friend
Bob Blaxley identified the apparition: [comet
Bennet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_Bennett). We saw Bennet
under nearly ideal conditions. The sky was pitch black and the comet was
very high. The tail was spectacular.

**Haley's Comet 1986 Edmonton Alberta Canada**

[Haley's Comet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halley's_Comet) is easily
the most famous comet out there. It's the one comet every literate
person knows. Haley is a short-period comet. It famously returns every
75 to 76 years. Haley's human lifetime period distinguishes it from most
comets. If you're lucky you can see Haley's Comet twice. Mark Twain
often opined that he came in with Haley's Comet and expected to go out
with it. [He
did!](http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2013/10/samuel-clemens-born-died-year-halleys-comet/)
Contrast this with Neowise. It won't return for another 6,700 years.
Nobody alive today will witness Neowise's return. Hell, even Bristlecone
Pines, trees that can live up to 5,000 years, won't see Neowise again.

Some of Haley's passes have been spectacular. The 1910 pass was
impressive, but the 1986 pass was a dud. In 1986 Haley's Comet was far
from Earth and appeared as a small fuzzy tailless spot in Edmonton
Alberta's skies. I'm glad I caught Haley's in 1986. I doubt I'll see it
again in 2061.

**Comet Hyakutake 1996 Kingston Ontario Canada**

In 1996 we were all holding our breath as Hale Bopp approached
perihelion. Hale Bopp had been discovered way out and we were hoping it
would blossom into the bright enduring comet we craved. We had been
bitterly disappointed before; we shall not utter
[Kohoutek](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_Kohoutek)'s name. With
Hale Bopp on the way,
[Hyakutake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_Hyakutake) was seen as a
warm-up act. But, just like warm-up bands can out-play headliners,
Hyakutake, the little comet that could, put on a great show.

On the week of Hyakutake's closet approach to Earth, I was eagerly
looking for it but Kingston Ontario's crappy cloudy skies got in the
way. Every night, for a week, I gazed up at the butt-holes of clouds not
exactly the tail[^6024x2] I was looking for. The weather was grim,
unrelenting, savage, cruel, relentless; it almost broke me, but then one
night, as I was pulling into our driveway I looked up and saw perfectly
framed in a cloud gap the long twisty filamentary tail of Hyakutake. The
tail spread over twenty degrees. It was the longest comet tail I have
ever seen. The following evening Kingston's skies clouded out and I
never saw Hyakutake again.

**Hale Bopp 1997 Kingston Ontario Canada**

You could make a good case that [Hale
Bopp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_Hale%E2%80%93Bopp) was the
comet of the 20^th^ century. Most naked eye comets show for a few weeks;
Hale Bopp graced Earth's skies for over a year. Hale Bopp was easily
visible to anyone that bothered looking up in 1997. It hung around for
so long that we almost got bored[^6024x3] with it! As grand as Hale Bopp was
it could have been beyond epic. Like Haley's Comet in 1986 Hale Bopp was
very far from the Earth when it zoomed by, but unlike Haley's which
appeared as a small fuzzy blob, Hale Bopp glowed like the much closer
Bennet for months. If Hale Bopp had passed as close to Earth as
Hyakutake had people would have lost their apocalyptic shit!

Some, too stupid to live, morons lost their apocalyptic shit anyway!
Remember the [Heaven's
Gate](https://www.escondidograpevine.com/2020/03/25/20-years-ago-heavens-gate-couldnt-wait/)
suicide squad that boarded spaceship Hale Bopp with phenobarbital? I'll
never forget their little
[Nike](https://solecollector.com/news/2015/03/nike-decade-heavens-gate-sneakers)
clad feet sticking out from under their purple death sheets. Ahh, good
times!

**Comet Neowise Meridian Idaho United States**

Neowise is the last comet on my list. It didn't put on a grand show or
inspire any suicidal death cults but I'll miss it anyway. Bon Voyage
Neowise.

[^6024x1]: I don't give a ding-dong-damn about whether you think Winnie the
    Chinese Wuhan Coronavirus is racist or not. The virus *cannot* care
    about what it's called, and neither should you. Ignore the
    [*wokerati*](https://www.baltimoresun.com/opinion/op-ed/bs-ed-op-0630-wokerati-20190620-story.html);
    for them everything is racist. They've stripped the word "racist" of
    its meaning. ["It's a beautiful thing, the destruction of
    words."](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/553001-it-s-a-beautiful-thing-the-destruction-of-words-of-course)

[^6024x2]: How's that for *micro-aggressive* comet sexual innuendo?

[^6024x3]: It takes a special type of asshole to be bored by a comet.
