
[Now for
a Nursing Home](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/04/27/now-for-a-nursing-home/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 27 Apr 2013 22:23:33*

Yesterday my mother left the Bozeman Deaconess hospital and went to a
nursing home. The week before she fell on the way to a radiation
appointment. The fall was serious enough to put her back in the
hospital. The poor woman has been in and out of hospitals for six
months. She has terminal brain cancer and is about half way through her
radiation treatments. When her radiation and chemotherapy treatments end
the focus will be on keeping her comfortable and pain-free until she
dies.

My mother’s mental state is up and down. The tumor started near her
speech centers on the left side of her brain. The surgeons managed to
remove most of the tumor and the radiation and chemo have kept the
remnant in check. Unfortunately, the cancer and surgery have impaired
her speech and memory. She cannot reliably recall her birthday or tell
us what year it is. Sometimes she cannot recall why she is in the rest
home and her sense of time is out of whack. Today she was asking for her
own mother: a woman who died six years ago.

People have mixed feelings about losing your mind when you’re close to
death. Some say it’s a blessing. It takes away the fear and blunts
oppressive anxiety. Others feel it’s a premature death. What’s the point
of living if you cannot remember your life? I’ve watched Alzheimer’s
drain people from the inside out leaving breathing hulks where sentient
beings once dwelled. Brain cancer is faster but it seldom dulls the fear
and comes with a menagerie of cognitive deficits. Believe me sudden
unexpected death has many benefits.

One thing is clear, don’t expect your golden years to unfurl like some
idiotic AARP or Viagra commercial. Forget about banging hotties or
gathering around the campfire with a horde of cute grandchildren. You’ll
be lucky to get out of bed for bowel movements. Old people smell is a
real mixture of loaded adult diapers and stale body odor. Live now —
there’s always time for death.
