[Offensive Team Names and GUIDs](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2021/06/14/offensive-team-names-and-guids/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 14 Jun 2021 21:03:56*

Not long ago while driving with my [NPR](https://www.npr.org/) loving
wife I was accidentally exposed to a radio panel "conversation"[^7130x1]
about *offensive* team names. Unless you've been off-planet for the last
few decades you're probably aware that it's no longer acceptable to name
teams after BIPOC'ky[^7130x2] people. To do so is to commit the heinous crime
of *cultural appropriation.* How naming a football team the "Redskins"
or a hockey team the "Blackhawks" steals culture is not entirely clear
but trust me it is. BIPOC'ky people are incapable of error. Their
opinions, however nonsensical, are absolute and must not be questioned,
especially by pasty, pink people --- you know racist white guys. This is
the prevailing NPR orthodoxy and the radio panel, comprised of a meek
approval-seeking host, and two sullen *aboriginal youths* (Indian
teenagers) accepted it without a trace of introspection.

The panel went on way too long about the youth's struggle to rename high
school basketball teams and their refusal to stand up and recite *The
Pledge of Allegiance.* I fully sympathized with their take on The Pledge
of Allegiance. It's a creepy loyalty oath that induces more nausea than
loyalty. I hated chanting it as a kid and nobody was forcing me onto a
reservation. Unthinking loyalty is a bad look for sentient beings.

It's hard to take whining teenagers, even the BIPOC'ky ones, seriously
but as a thought experiment let's assume that baseball teams should not
be given names like the "Braves."

What the Hell should we call them?

I'm pretty sure that the people bitching about offensive BIPOC'ky names
will not take to *culturally unappropriated names*. Would changing
"Redskins" to "Whiteskins" fix the problem? Instead of "Braves" how
about "Confederates", or even better, "Klansmen." See no cultural
appropriation!

We've arrived at the fundamental problem. No matter what you call a team
some fragile butthurt pussy boy will crawl out of the pussy boy closet
and moan about how lily-white "Vikings" raped and sodomized his even
whiter ancestors and, how dare you, name a team after them! We're living
in an age of cheap outrage.

Now, tone to the contrary, I am keen to solve the *offensive team name
problem:* no greater threat imperils civilization. But, here's the
thing. I'm not a quick-fix guy. I don't want to rename teams only to
rename them again a few years later when new aggrieved parties surface.
I want, dare I say it, a *final solution*, to the offensive team name
problem. If we're going to rename teams, rebrand all their merch, update
their fight songs, and swap out their stadium signs let's do it right.
Let's pick names that have never offended anyone, anywhere, anytime.

Fortunately, it's easy to concoct such "names." We nerdy People of
Programming (POPS) generate untold billions of inoffensive names every
single day and despite living on a planet of 7.5 billion complainers
we've yet to log a single objection.

What are these inoffensive names?

They go by many monikers with the most famous being [GUIDs (Globally
Unique Identifiers)](https://www.uuidtools.com/what-is-uuid). GUIDs are
generated by clever algorithms that ensure each GUID is globally unique.
Here's one in hexadecimal `"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"`.

It's extremely unlikely that anyone on this planet, or any other, has
ever seen this exact GUID before. Also, it's extremely unlikely you will
ever see it again; that's the globally unique bit.
`"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` has no history, no context, no NPR
nuance; there's nothing about this completely novel bit pattern that
could possibly offend anyone. `"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` did
not abuse your ancestors, call you names, or disrespect your authority.
It's even more innocent than a newborn baby because it isn't even white!
So, let's give the "Redskins" of the world names like
`"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"`: offensive team name problem
solved.

As perfect as `"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` is it has a few
problems. `"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` doesn't lend itself to
mob cheers.

"Go `9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19` Go," is decidedly less catchy
than "Go Utes Go."

Also, `"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` won't fit on T-shirts and
ball caps. The cap and T-shirt problem is easily fixed. Simply wrap
`"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` into nice patterns like:

            925978
            1A92E4
            B5  42
            BE  E9
            585BDE
            E07B19

If that's not *artsy-fartsy* enough map standard alphanumeric characters
to say, [Hittite
Unicode](https://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/cuneifont/),[^7130x3] throw in
some gay colors, and *Voila* you get logo-friendly graphics like:

As for the cheer problem, I agree that
`"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` is a mouthful but it comes with a
life-saving plus. It functions as a fan sobriety test. If you're too
drunk to chant `"9259781A92E4B542BEE9585BDEE07B19"` you're too drunk to
drive or vote.

So there you have it. Simply substitute GUIDs for offensive team names
and then, for the love of logic, shut the fuck up and attend to real
problems.

[^7130x1]: "Conversation" is lefty speak for shut up and agree!

[^7130x2]: BIPOC stands for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color.

[^7130x3]: I'm taking a chance using Hittite symbols here. God forbid that I
    should *culturally appropriate* symbols from a long-dead
    civilization. How will I ever pay reparations?
