[Oh Crap Martin Gardner has
Died!](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/05/24/oh-crap-martin-gardner-has-died/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 24 May 2010 15:21:50*

Last night I heard of [Martin
Gardner’s](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin\_Gardner) death at the
age of ninety-five. When someone lives into their nineties death is not
unexpected but in Gardner’s case it still saddens me. Martin Gardner’s
famous [Mathematical
Games](http://www.amazon.com/Martin-Gardners-Mathematical-Games-Gardner/dp/0883855453)
column set a standard for mathematical exposition that has yet to be
equaled. He proved, month after month for twenty-five years, that
popular writing did not have to dumb things down to misleading
trivialities but could, in fact, inspire, thrill and challenge
specialists and children alike. There probably isn’t a mathematician,
physicist, computer scientist or engineer of my generation that didn’t
grow up reading Gardner’s column.

When I was getting ready to teach mathematics as a
[CUSO](http://www.cuso-vso.org/) volunteer in Ghana I decided to collect
all of Martin Gardner’s columns. During my school years Gardner’s
columns served as an antidote to *[curriculum
mathematics.](http://www2.edc.org/mcc/)* Curriculum mathematics, in many
public school systems, is horribly
*[ahistorical.](http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn?s=ahistorical)*
There is no rhyme or reason why certain mathematical topics are covered
and others, the vast majority, are ignored. Gardner’s columns filled in
the gaps and resurrected the beauty of even the dullest bits of
curriculum mathematics. As a new mathematics teacher I couldn’t think of
a better resource so I wisely photocopied Gardner and ignored textbooks.

In Ghana I lived without TV, radio, recorded music and sometimes
newspapers but I didn’t care! On many nights I slowly read through my
big pile of Mathematical Games photocopies. The effect of reading *all
the columns* was striking. Taken one at a time Gardner’s entries were
always interesting but when read from start to finish you come away
stunned by the level of erudition. Genius is an abused word. Our silly
media makes everyone a genius for 15 minutes. In Gardner’s case the word
is apt. I will miss the man.
