
[Ok Boomer K-TV](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/02/13/ok-boomer-k-tv/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 13 Feb 2024 19:45:33*

I was into South Korean TV long
before [BTS](https://kprofiles.com/bts-bangtan-boys-members-profile/) and
the gen-whatever teeny boppers. One of the first TV shows I reviewed on
this
blog, [Faith](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2012/09/02/faith-a-guilty-pleasure/),
was a deliciously nonsensical time-traveling South Korean rom-com
martial arts fantasy. Yeah, it was that crazy. With advancing age and
creeping *Bidenesque* dementia, my affection for South Korean TV has
only increased. My latest K-TV crush is [Extraordinary Attorney
Woo](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt20869502/).

Extraordinary Attorney Woo, or *Woo* from now on, is about a brilliant
and super cute young autistic Korean attorney. There are many things to
like about Woo. The characters are all hygienically clean-cut and
attractive. No fatties, fags, bull dykes, transvestites, and related
diverse degenerates are in sight. Woo's court cases are delightfully
innocent. Instead of the predictable parade of murder, rape, and
*misgendering* cases that Western legal dramas offer up, Woo attacks
zoning disputes, business contract dilemmas, and points of personal
honor. By *Hollyweirdo* standards, the stakes could not be lower.

Even more charming, Woo exhibits absolutely zero "diversity." All the
characters are 100% Korean. No token white, black, or extraneous
indigenous placeholders are present to remind us of how woke the
screenwriters and producers are. Even more astonishing, all the
characters are well-behaved heterosexuals! When was the last time you
watched a gay-free western production? In the West, we've endured
decades of [putting a chick in it and making her
gay](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9vJDcCcANnU), and this cranky old
boomer has had it. Woo mirrors 1950s Western TV. In that remote bygone
age, TV provided models of how we should be -- *not how we should not
be!* My advice, get yourself some Woo and take a break from the
bullshit.
