 
[Old white guys look at the sky!](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/11/20/old-white-guys-look-at-the-sky/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 20 Nov 2011 22:35:44*

Last Friday I joined the [Saint Louis Astronomical
Society](https://www.slasonline.org/) (SLAS). In the last twenty years I
have been a member of two chapters of the [Royal Astronomical Society of
Canada](https://www.rasc.ca/): [Kingston](https://kingston.rasc.ca/) and
[Ottawa](https://www.ottawa.rasc.ca/), the [Forth Worth Astronomical
Society](https://www.fortworthastro.com) in Texas, the [Minnesota
Astronomical Society](https://www.mnastro.org/) in Saint Paul and the
[Orange County Astronomers](https://www.ocastronomers.org/) in southern
California. No matter where I go I can see the sky and I can find people
who share my interest in it. The SLAS is very similar to other clubs. If
you were to walk into a typical astronomy club meeting your overwhelming
impression would be: *old white guys like looking at the sky!*

The undeniable old whiteness of astronomy clubs is a concern because
it tells you something about the health of our culture. If you think I
am pulling your leg or being sarcastic consider the following.

1.  **Club members have strong *noncommercial* or *unprofessional*
    interests in science.** Most are not professional astronomers or
    even scientists. Few derive any income from their interests in
    astronomy and many spend insane amounts of time and money building
    telescopes, observing the sky and keeping up with findings in
    astronomy and related sciences. What’s the point? Wouldn’t these
    people be better off devoting the time they “waste” on astronomy to
    more productive pursuits? Mind you the same applies to
    *unprofessional* artists and hobbyists of all types that “waste”
    comparable amounts of time on their own “pointless” pursuits.
    Astronomy club members love what they do, and, in my experience,
    it’s a constant and enduring love that never dims or goes away.
    Anyone with a real passion knows what I’m talking about.

2.  **Astronomy club members respect, understand and value scientific
    arguments.** We are constantly reading depressing assessments of the
    public’s dismal understanding of science. For example, 44% of the US
    public accepts that, “[God created man pretty much in his present
    form at one time within the last 10,000
    years.](https://www.religioustolerance.org/ev\_publia.htm)” Only 5%
    of scientists accept this nonsense and [even 5% seems to high for my
    skeptical
    ass.](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/29/hard-ass-skeptic-rules/)
    Astronomy club members will poll more like scientists than the
    general public on this question. A society that depends on science
    yet harbors ignorant masses that do not grasp or appreciate basic
    scientific findings will not hold.

3.  **Club members welcome anyone with an interest in astronomy.** I
    have belonged to half a dozen astronomy clubs and without exception
    they welcome anyone with an interest in the subject. I have never
    seen somebody turned away, or discouraged, for reasons of race, age,
    sex, sexual orientation, political or religious affiliations, or
    social class. Astronomy clubs are about as egalitarian as it gets!
    It gets better. Most clubs nurture and cherish the youngsters in
    their midst’s. This is partly because we don’t see a lot of
    youngsters and by youngster I mean anyone under thirty!

So why are astronomy clubs in North America old and white? Do people
think you need expensive telescopes and other pricey gadgets to enjoy
amateur astronomy? I’ve looked at the sky for decades primarily with
binoculars. They are still the best way to learn the sky. Has the
public’s interest in science declined during the last forty years? Is
elementary science education worse than it was when I was a child? Is
the XBox’ed and Avatar’ed generation bored with looking at faint smudges
in the sky? *Finally, do we smell?* I don’t know why astronomy clubs are
old and white but I do know that I will probably be associated with one
until the day I die.
