
[On Eponymous Erasure](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/09/28/on-eponymous-erasure/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

*Posted: 28 Sep 2022 21:16:26*

While slumming on the Internet I came across a woman complaining.
Imagine my astonishment! The lady,[^7510x1] let's call her Karen, had an
esoteric complaint, it was:

> The Pythagorean Theorem was known long before his birth. Calling the
> theorem "Pythagorean" is a form of erasure.

Oh my!

Apparently, attributing a well-known mathematical result to a person or
school associated with its long history erases others, and by "others"
Karen means BIPOC'ky people.

Ok, Karen, I'll play.

You are correct that specific cases of the "Pythagorean Theorem" were
known long before Pythagoras. The most famous [Babylonian mathematical
tablet YBC 7289](https://www.maa.org/press/periodicals/convergence/the-best-known-old-babylonian-tablet) demonstrates that the Babylonians were aware of the square case at least a thousand years before Pythagoras.

Other tablets indicate they also knew about Pythagorean triples: natural
number solutions of $a^{2} + b^{2} =c^{2}$.

     a     b    c
    ----- ----- -----
     3     4     5
     5     12    13
     7     24    25   
    Some Pythagorean Triples

The Babylonians weren't the only culture aware of the "Pythagorean
Theorem." The Egyptians, Chinese, and Indians were all aware of special
cases and some, particularly the ancient Chinese and Indians, even came
up with *sort-of-ok* proofs for particular cases like equilateral right
triangles. This is hardly surprising. I submit that anyone building
square houses or laying out rectangular fields is likely to stumble on
special cases of the Pythagorean theorem. It's a simple matter to pace
off the sides of a rectangular field and compare the result to the
diagonal. The *Pythagorean Rule-of-Thum*b, to distinguish it from the
theorem, has been known forever. I wouldn't be surprised if it was found
in ice age cave paintings or aboriginal rock art one day. But, as anyone
that's ever-studied mathematics knows, there's a big difference between
a rule-of-thumb and a general proof, and the first *sort-of-ok*
surviving general proof of the Pythagorean Theorem has been attributed
to none other than Euclid.[^7510x2] Karen, it's a shame that Euclid, the most
famous name in mathematics, has been erased.

I know that didn't go the way you wanted, but your complaint, when
divorced from postering, has merit. The custom of naming things after
alleged progenitors has a long-checkered history. Misattributions, or
"erasures" using your term, are so common they have their own law:
[Stigler's law of
eponymy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stigler%27s_law_of_eponymy).
"Stigler's Law states that no scientific discovery is named after its
original discoverer." In a nice bit of self-reference, Stigler's Law
applies to Stigler's Law. The "law" was known before Stigler claimed it.
It seems we naked apes love "erasing" others.

Now, Karen, it would be so-so nice if we could rename the Pythagorean
theorem after its "first discover," but I suspect we will never know who
or when this occurred. If we opt for "first prover" then we have to nail
down what we mean by proof. If we're going to insist on *general
ultra-anal formal axiomatic* proofs then you can make a good case that
the Pythagorean Theorem was not really "proven" until modern times as
the Pythagorean Theorem is a good test case for computer [proof
assistants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_assistant): see
[Formalizing 100 Theorems](https://www.cs.ru.nl/~freek/100/).
Rechristening the "Pythagorean Theorem" is, to use an annoying cliché,
*problematic*.

The only thing that makes sense is to strip away all eponymous names and
call the Pythagorean Theorem something forgettable like the *Right-Angle
Triangle Side Length Theorem*. Fortunately, renaming things will not
damage mathematics. David Hilbert once famously remarked, "[One must be
able to say all times -- instead of points, straight lines, and planes
-- tables, chairs, and beer
mugs.](https://quotefancy.com/quote/1237279/David-Hilbert-One-must-be-able-to-say-at-all-times-instead-of-points-straight-lines-and)"
It's the mathematical content that matters, not the language used to
discuss the content. So maybe the answer to eponymous Stiglerian erasure
is extreme erasure. Let's purge all traces of humanity from mathematics.
[Some cynics](https://sites.math.rutgers.edu/~zeilberg/OPINIONS.html)
might add that formal axiomatics has been pursuing this for over a
century already.

[^7510x1]: The complainer identified as female.

[^7510x2]: The [Pythagorean Theorem
    Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_theorem) page
    describes Euclid's proof as *axiomatic*. I consider this an
    overstatement.
