 
[Only Now at the End do you Understand](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/03/16/only-now-at-the-end-do-you-understand/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 16 Mar 2010 17:06:44*

It’s easy to see why other generations detest
[boomers](http://tierneylab.blogs.nytimes.com/2007/03/05/the-ailing-or-wailing-baby-boomers/).
Without a doubt this cohort, my cohort, is the most spoiled,
self-indulgent, pompous and
[delusional](http://www.ageinplacetech.com/blog/metlife-are-boomers-middleof-self-delusion)
generation in western history. We were born in boom times and grew up
thinking they would last forever. Well, I am happy to report that
nothing lasts forever. The boomers, now entering their twilight years,
are about to come face to face with reality and reality is a mean
[castrating
bitch](http://www.urbandictionary.com/products.php?defid=2255635).

Boomers, the generation that fought no serious wars, (Vietnam doesn’t
count most boomers dodged that conflict with student deferments or
outright draft dodging), suffered no serious economic downturns,
swallowed [socialist
drivel](http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article3357.html) about “doing
only meaningful work” and seriously believed the government would look
after them in their old age are now discovering that:

1.  They have not saved enough.

2.  Finding even [meaningless
    work](http://www.artnotart.com/fluxus/wdemaria-meaninglesswork.html)
    cannot be taken for granted.

3.  The government takes more than it will ever give.

4.  They will have to work until they drop or starve.

Boomers have nobody to blame but themselves. They enjoyed the highest
incomes in history but instead of following the ancient maxim: *good
times are when you get ready for bad times.* They binged on a diet of
junk consumer goods, over [leveraged real
estate](http://www.irvinehousingblog.com/blog/category/mortgage-fraud/)
and various stock market Ponzi schemes. Well the bill has come due! Hope
you enjoy your golden years of Wal-Mart greeting: [I’d urge you to apply
now](http://www.spartantailgate.com/forums/msu-red-cedar-message-board/302784-old-man-walmart-application.html).
