
[On Shiny Pony
and Witch Berning](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2016/03/12/on-shiny-pony-and-witch-berning/) 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 12 Mar 2016 21:24:48*

This week Canada’s shiny new Prime Minister [Justin Trudeau is hanging
out with
Obama](http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/trudeau-obama-state-visit-washington-1.3483545).
You can imagine my excitement: two photogenic lightweights sharing a
heartwarming *bromance* on the public’s dime. I am at a loss to imagine
[a more hurl inducing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mbg1nEXQ1fI)
scenario. I shared my feelings with a terse CBC comment.

> As a dual US-Canadian citizen I must avert my eyes when confronted
> with such unctuous and expensive dog and pony shows. At least, we know
> who the dog is and who the shiny pony is! In a few short months, the
> toilet of history will flush on the Obama administration. For this we
> can thank term limits: one the best ideas in government ehh! This will
> cure the American Obama problem and ruin Trudeau’s play dates for
> years to come as I’m pretty sure neither Hillary or Trump are
> compatible with whatever is putting the wave in Justin’s hair.

I have safely ignored Justin Trudeau, (Shiny Pony), for decades and no
harm will come from continuing this practice. Canada is, in Douglas
Adam’s immortal words, “mostly harmless.” It’s one of the things I love
about the country. It balances out the smug, preening, holier than thou,
moral posturing that erupts from many Canadians when presented with
conundrums like Trump. Batman’s nemesis the Joker said it best, “Why so
serious?” Canadians take themselves more seriously than the Danes. If
you’ve ever lived in Denmark you’ll understand.

Unfortunately, the United States is not mostly harmless. It matters *a
little bit* who is elected President. It doesn’t matter nearly as much
as many Americans think and we can praise the all squiggling [Flying
Spaghetti Monster](http://www.venganza.org/) for that. Living under a
hubris-infused narcissist like Obama would be far worse if we didn’t
have the luxury of ignoring him. And this brings me to Hillary,
(Hildabeast), and Trump. It’s going to be difficult to ignore either one
of them, and sadly *[None of the
Above](http://truthinmedia.com/none-of-the-above-to-appear-on-canadian-ballot/)*,
my preferred candidate, is not on the ballot. This is a problem.

My solution, as always, revolves around who I hate the most. Animus is
my animating principle. Trump is a bombastic tool, but, at least, I
don’t want to hold his head under water until it stops making nagging
noises. The prospect of four years of [Hildabeast
barking](http://hotair.com/archives/2016/02/16/video-for-some-reason-hillary-barks-like-a-dog-during-stump-speech/)
is profoundly depressing. The bitch must be stopped so I’m resorting to
extreme measures. Next week I’ll cast a primary vote for that old 1960s
era western hippie-commie, Bernie Sanders. Sanders has no chance of
winning the presidency in November. If by some miracle, he ends up as
the Democrat nominee he will be crushed by whatever crawls out of the
Republican swamp.

I almost feel sorry for Bernie. Like all 1960s era western
hippie-commies, he’s a weird mixture of earnest naiveté and historical
ignorance. Western hippie-commies differ from their real eastern
counterparts. They’ve never held power, never run anything of
importance, and have a serious marketing problem!

Anyone, even remotely cognizant of 20^th^-century history, will find it
hard to overlook the vast pile of corpses various communist and
socialist regimes piled up. We’re not really sure how many tens of
millions died at the hands of Stalin, Mao, Kim Il-Sung, Pol Pot and
lesser thugs but it exceeds the toll exacted by the Nazi’s. This is
beyond historical dispute. You can whine, attempt to change the subject,
and hurl as many epithets as you want but it won’t change this nasty
fact. People’s regimes are demonstrably bad for people.

Western hippie-commies like Sanders know this so they rebrand themselves
as socialists. Socialists believe that if you only do communism right
none of the brutal side effects will accrue. You can have somebody
else’s cake and eat it too. This is naïve. Ask anyone in Venezuela about
the wonders of 21^st^-century socialism. While you’re at it, explain how
the socialism of Bernie Sanders differs from the socialism of Hugo
Chavez. Spoiler alert: it doesn’t!

A primary vote for Sanders is mostly harmless. It’s like sticking a
cocklebur on [Pussydent
Hildabeast’s](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/15/pussydent-hildabeast/)
hideous hide. Still it amuses me? I must take solace somewhere. Let’s
Bern the Witch!
