 
[Oz the Gratuitous and Purile](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/03/09/oz-the-gratuitous-and-purile/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 09 Mar 2013 20:16:05*

The original [Wizard of
Oz](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/1092277-wizard\_of\_oz/), the one we
have all seen many times, is on a very short list of nearly perfect
movies. Everything about the 1939 film is superb in excess. It’s as fun
to watch today as it was over seventy years ago and you cannot
*honestly* say that about many films. Because Oz is such a towering film
classic it has overshadowed all cinematic attempts to reenter and
reimagine [Frank L. Baum’s](http://www.online-literature.com/baum/)
world. Without exception every Oz wanna-be, and there have been many,
suck like motivated gay prostitutes. Perhaps if we hadn’t seen the
original, [Oz the Great and Powerful](http://disney.go.com/thewizard/),
might be judged a “good” film, but we have and this overblown
homage underscores, yet again, the magnificence of the 1939 Oz. I have
some advice for Baum fans. If you want to reimagine his world — read his
damn books! Believe it or not the book, [The Wizard of
Oz](http://www.booksshouldbefree.com/book/the-wonderful-wizard-of-oz),
is as good, if not better than the film classic. As for film makers —
just stop it! Oz is close to sacred ground; if you’re not a
Kubrick-level cinematic genius, *and very few of you are,* all you’re
going to do is embarrass yourself and induce Dorothy nostalgia in your
audience.

Watching Oz the Great and Powerful (OGP) has its own minor schizophrenic
charms. On the good witch side OGP is another stunning special effects
extravaganza. 21^st^ century movies are now in a weird place; if you
can imagine it you can render it on the screen. If the ancient Greeks
had a god of special movie effects it’s unlikely he could top your
average contemporary big budget — tiny brain — movie. For decades
producers and directors have strived to out-effect each other and
they’ve finally ended up in a place Sophocles would recognize. Real
improvements in modern movies can come from only one place: better
stories! It was the telling of the story that distinguished the 1939 Oz.
They took brilliant source material and merged it with equally brilliant
songs. This is incredibly difficult and rarely achieved. In OGP’s case
they didn’t even try. The suits that ruin Disney these days have a
reputation for phoning stories in. With OGP they’ve out [John
Carter’ed](http://disney.go.com/johncarter/) themselves. I believe a bad
Oz witch went all premenstrual on the screen writers. How else can you
explain the transformation of classic source material into the [Phantom
Menace of
Oz](http://www.news.com.au/entertainment/movies/in-case-you-thought-the-phantom-menace-didnt-suck-enough-heres-the-kids-trailer/story-e6frfmvr-1226261913906)?
