
[Pandora’s Star: a Grand 
Sprawling Entertainment](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/09/01/pandoras-star-a-grand-sprawling-entertainment/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 01 Sep 2014 21:00:56*

In my fevered youth I was an avid fan of science fiction but as I
crossed the Rubicon of middle age I read less and less of the genre. For
years I preferred nonfiction: mostly science with a smattering of
history and biography. Then, about five years ago, I started reading
science fiction again.

What kept me away? Most of the authors of my youth had died: Heinlein,
Clarke, Asimov, Bradbury, Anderson, Herbert and Dick – all gone! I had
to find new – to me – authors. I knew and loved Neal Stephenson, the
author of *Cryptonomicon, Diamond Age, Snow Crash*, and *Anathem*, but
after four or five thousand pages of Neal it was time to move on. My
first post Stephenson, new to me, author was Iain M. Banks.

Banks specialized in what’s often called alien infested space opera. His
universes are overflowing with life. Aliens are everywhere, inhabiting
niches that most biologists would poo-poo as impossible. I prefer more
empty and serene universes but Banks’ books like *The Algebraist*,
*Surface Detail*, and *Consider Phelbas* whet my appetite for his
crowded milieus. I was looking forward to following Banks for years but
it wasn’t to be. Iain M. Banks died of cancer, at the ridiculously
premature age of 59, leaving fans all over the word wanting. There is no
greater outrage than mortality!

After Banks’ death I looked around for other operatic authors; it didn’t
take me long to find [Peter F.
Hamilton](http://www.peterfhamilton.co.uk/) and [*Pandora’s
Star*](http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/pandoras-star-peter-f-hamilton/1100293432?ean=9780345479211).
*Pandora’s Star* is a huge, highly entertaining, example of what I call
*restrained* science fiction.

Restraint is what separates science fiction from fantasy. Fantasy
tolerates an anything goes mishmash of logical inconsistencies.
Literature has a term for this: *Deus ex machina.* Modern fantasy is a
veritable high-tech *Deux ex machina* factory churning out
[beta-male](http://theredpillroom.blogspot.com/p/masculexicon.html)
vampires that take implausible romantic interests in their food,
prepubescent wizards jerking off in boarding school, (Oh it happened),
fireproof maximum babes with pet dragons, and armies of oxymoronic
brain-dead brain eating zombies. *Only scripture piles on more logical
nonsense than fantasy.*

I enjoy fantasy as much as the next nerd but it’s not science fiction.
Proper restrained science fiction admits a small number of “magic
suppositions” but otherwise rigorously adheres to what we know about
physical reality. You need some damn science in your science fiction
people. The universe of *Pandora’s Star *presumes a few impossibilities;
it assumes wormholes and faster than light (FTL) travel. FTL is a
standard plot enabling device. Civilizations spanning thousands of light
years simply cannot exist, on human time scales, without it. *Pandora’s
Star* makes three more “impossible” assumptions which I will not divulge
because ruining good books should be a capital crime. Aside from these
allowed departures from reality the universe of *Pandora’s Star* sticks
to scientific bricks and unfolds with lovely consistency.

Most science fiction writers make impossible assumptions but great ones
take them in unexpected directions. Consider wormholes. Wormholes have
been a staple of science fiction forever. Three, not entirely
restrained, [TV series](http://stargate.mgm.com/) had contemporary
soldiers marching through them every week for years. They’ve popped up
in every two-bit tale that needed quick point A to B plumbing. Wormholes
are a cliché and their presence often signals unimaginative hackery. If
you’re going to confront me with wormholes you better damn well show me
something new or I’m outta your lame book. The opening chapter of
*Pandora’s Star* is one of the most humorous and imaginative use of
wormholes in science fiction. A few pages later Hamilton sends trains
through wormholes. It’s [Sheldon
Cooper’s](http://www.cbs.com/shows/big\_bang\_theory/) wet dream:
*trains in space.* I had to smile and keep on reading. *Pandora’s Star*
is a big book, almost one thousand pages, but like all great sprawling
books it’s too damn short. Fortunately, there’s a second book, *Judas
Unchained*, that keeps the story rolling. I haven’t had this much fun
with a science fiction since *Dune*. It’s that good.
