 
[Photospheres Away!](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/10/30/photospheres-away-2/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 30 Oct 2014 16:53:30*

Photographers are notorious gear-heads. Everybody has a favorite lens,
camera or tripod and, no matter how much gear we have, more is always
better! Hey, somebody has to stimulate the moribund Obama economy. Gear
lust is not entirely irrational. Good cameras really do take
“technically” better pictures than mediocre or poor cameras but here’s
the infuriating thing. Technical merit does not make the image!

Image quality depends of many things and changes over time. If you doubt
this imagine you have an old locket that frames a
[Daguerreotype](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daguerreotype) of your
great-great-grandmother. I’d bet that every single portrait on your
shiny new iPhone is “technically” superior to that old Daguerreotype but
I’d also bet you’d chuck your iPhone before giving up that old
Daguerreotype. An image’s quality goes far beyond [MTF
curves](http://photographylife.com/how-to-read-mtf-charts) and pixel
counts. Photography and geometry are both bereft of royal roads.

In the early days of photography gear was a serious constraint. Getting
a good picture was a technical and artistic struggle. Imagine shooting a
panorama using large glass plates covered with a home-brewed [ASA
0.5](http://www.alternativephotography.com/wp/processes/gelatin-silver/silver-gelatin-dry-plate-process),
(you read that right ASA 0.5), blue light-sensitive emulsion. Despite
such limitations early photographers managed to create some great
images. Imagination and gumption have always been the most important
photographic tools with good lenses as a distant third. Well, the 150
year reign of the lens has ended, *software has displaced the lens as
the primary modern photographic tool* and [Google’s
Photosphere](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/photo-sphere-camera/id904418768)
cell phone application neatly demonstrates this technological shift.

A
[photosphere](https://www.google.com/maps/about/contribute/photosphere/)
is a panorama on steroids. It’s a complete 360 degree look around image.
The Google photosphere app derives from Google Maps street view. Street
views are shot with special multi-lens cameras that look everywhere at
once but some bright spark in Google realized that you could get roughly
the same result from a single lens if the photographer was willing to
endure a vertigo inducing dance. Shooting a photosphere takes at least
three twirling 360 degree passes. You have to shoot the ground, horizon
and sky. It takes about twenty frames to build a photosphere.

[Click for a 1969 Panorama](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Manipulations/Panoramas-1/i-F76f7c7/A)

There is nothing new about multi-frame panoramas. Photographers started
shooting multi-frame panoramas [shortly after the camera’s
invention](https://content.lib.washington.edu/panoramweb/history.html).
I shot them when I was teenager. Panorama software isn’t new either;
it’s been around for decades. Two “new” developments make photospheres
possible: photosphere viewers and cameras, (cell phones), that are more
software than camera.

The sphere cannot be mapped onto the plane without distortion. This
mathematical fact limits how wide-angle your wide-angle shots can be
before they are unnaturally distorted. A flattened 360 degree view of
common rectilinear subjects looks wonderfully, or horribly, weird:
straight lines become curves and areas lose proportionality. Many
natural vistas can tolerate such torments but average street views
cannot. Photosphere viewers fix this problem by simulating how we look
around. Every time you browse a Google street view you are running a
photosphere viewer.

[Click for Palmer Creek Photosphere](https://www.google.com/maps/views/view/109459250977988268850/gphoto/6071702564097759170)

Shooting panoramas and photospheres is like any other type of
photography. It takes lots of practice! It was hard to “practice”
shooting such images before cell phones could run stitching and viewing
software because you couldn’t see what you had until you took your
twenty frames back to the “lab” and tediously put them together. Ten
years ago panorama software required a lot of manual intervention. I
spent hours putting three or four frames together. I didn’t put a twenty
frame panorama together until I snapped my first iPhone Photosphere.

The iPhone lens is a pretty crappy short focal length lens. Any decent
camera lens easily outclasses it yet I cannot shoot photospheres with my
expensive Nikon’s while my cruddy little cell phone can.  What’s the
difference?  Software!

[Click for Museum of Transportation Photosphere](https://www.google.com/maps/views/view/109459250977988268850/gphoto/6074254717471563618)

iPhone Google photospheres are fun but they’re flaw ridden. You can
easily see stitching errors, blending artifacts, ghost people, and other
blemishes. Now that we can shoot photospheres the race is on to shoot
quality photospheres! Software will dominate but hardware has to catch
up to make this happen. Before long you will be able to buy a special
multi-lens photosphere ball camera that you can literally throw into the
air. This ought to fix the viewpoint problem for people with good
pitching arms and the rest of us can drop the little sucker from a
drone. Photospheres away!

[Click for Panono ball Photosphere camera](http://www.dpreview.com/articles/9435374316/panono-announces-pricing-and-availability-for-rolling-ball-camera)
