 
[Playing the Blog hit game](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/07/09/playing-the-blog-hit-game/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 10 Jul 2012 03:39:06*

On June 5^th^ 2012 my little blog set an all time hit record: 198
robots, spammers and readers incremented my counters. 198 hits would be
embarrassing for a major blog like
[Instapundit](http://pjmedia.com/instapundit/) but for [Analyze the Data
not the Drivel](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/) it was a
“[hitnotic](http://www.samizdata.net/blog/glossary\_archives/2002/09/hitnosis.html)”
day. I always attribute my triumphs to my utter manly awesomeness but I
had to ask; *was anything else going on June 5^th^, 2012? Nothing much
except the last transit of Venus in this century!* The masses were
searching for “transit” and hundreds landed on this [little
entry](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/04/22/2012-venus-transit-and-annular-eclipse/)
I wrote a few months ago.

It takes time for a blog post to burrow into cyberspace. Google and Bing
are always prowling blog sites and will pick up new posts within minutes
but it takes about two weeks before worldwide indexes are updated. Once
a post is on search engines readers will find it and when they do it
will meet one of these three fates.

1.  *Nobody ever reads it again.* This is the fate of most of my posts.
    I have posts that my dog, if I had a dog, wouldn’t read. It’s too
    bad because some of my [finest lyrical unhinged
    rants](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/06/16/i-did-not-have-sex-with-that-oil-spill/)
    are my least read posts.

2.  *It gets lots of hits followed by a quick return to few or none.* My
    popular posts follow this pattern. Now that the 2012 transit of
    Venus is history people will stop searching for it. Popular posts
    fade faster than [old Botox saturated
    actresses](http://www.drparkave.com/news/10-famous-women-aging-gracefully-10-who-arent/)
    so enjoy your hits *while they last!*

3.  *It gets legs and keeps sucking in hits for weeks, months and
    years.* My normal traffic comes from half a dozen *leggy* postings.
    My *leggy-est* posting is an [*Inception* movie
    review](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/07/28/the-20-seconds-that-ruined-inception/)
    that I wrote almost two years ago; it’s still generating ten to
    twenty hits per day. *Its ok people nobody really got that movie.*

Finally, *the blog hit game is a long game;* you have to keep playing.
The best sports analogy is golf. Golf is the world’s hardest game. The
gap between a perfect round of eighteen and what the best players are
capable of is insurmountable. Nobody will ever shoot an honest eighteen.
A [best ball](http://golf.about.com/cs/golfterms/g/bldef\_bestball.htm)
foursome of Buddha, Christ, Mohammad and the archangel Gabriel couldn’t
shoot an honest eighteen. The Sun exploding tomorrow is more likely than
on honest eighteen. Golf sets a bar so high it will never be breached.
Artists have similar bars. The perfect novel is impossible. The perfect
song is impossible. The perfect sculpture is impossible and I dare say
the perfect blog post is impossible but then *it’s the impossibility of
perfection that keeps things interesting.* Keep at it and the hits will
come.
