 
[RAW development rubs me Raw](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/05/27/raw-development-rubs-me-raw/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 27 May 2012 22:31:08*

I’m exhausted. For the last four nights I’ve been up late
*[Lightroom’ing](http://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop-lightroom.html)*
the pictures I took on my [little Arizona annular eclipse
trip](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/USA-and-Canada/Arizona-Toodling-1/7475075\_MrjqMc).
I’m a new Lightroom user and I’m not entirely impressed with the
program. It’s a first class general
[RAW](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raw\_image\_format) developer but I
don’t think it’s as good as [Capture
NX](http://www.capturenx.com/en/index.html) when working with Nikon NEF
files. For the nonce I will keep Lightroom’ing away; *you have to master
something before you can have a valid opinion about it!*

As annoyed as I am about Lightroom I know, from bitter experience, that
*when I first process images I only see problems.* The composition
sucks. The colors are off. Things are too dark or to light. After a few
dozen disappointments the mood darkens and I wonder just *who the fuck
took all this shit?* But I solider on, waging relentless pixel warfare,
because in few years, when I’ve forgotten about light curves, sharpening
parameters, edge masks, color spaces and all the technical
[hoo-hah](http://www.thefreedictionary.com/hoo-ha) that goes into
digital image making, I start seeing the pictures not the flaws. I
sometimes catch myself looking at my old pictures and wondering just who
took all these great shots. You change your mind about pictures!

This is why I don’t use “star” ratings. Most image management systems
have ratings. Lightroom has a five-star system,
[Thumbsplus](http://www.cerious.com) does something similar and every
image management tool I’ve looked at has a comparable feature. Obviously
the masses expect and demand ratings. Too bad the masses are wrong. In
the long run ratings are meaningless. You really see this with
restoration projects. I’ve spent days [restoring
pictures](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Themes/Manipulations/Restorations-1/7091264\_pbTtkm)
that what I would rate as total crap if I had just shot them. Yet here I
am spending long hours on yesterday’s crap.

Restoration work also changes your attitude about duds. In my film days
I ruthlessly pruned my slides and negatives trashing exposures that
didn’t meet my standards *of the time*. Now I curse that [delusional
jackass](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/The-Way-We-Were/me-edmonton-248039614/473531869\_ocr95-L-3.jpg)
for throwing away my precious originals. It’s surprising how useful duds
are; they fill in missing details and remind you of your ever-changing
opinions. Save your duds I guarantee you will feel differently about
them in a few years and, of course, others will have completely
different takes.
