[Resume blues partly alleviated by
LaTeX](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/08/28/resume-blues-partly-alleviated-by-latex/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 28 Aug 2010 16:26:06*

Once again your fearless correspondent is seeking new consulting
opportunities. One of the major drawbacks of consulting is the constant
need to keep marketing yourself! When it comes to self promotion that
old standby, the resume, is still one of your most effective tools. When
communicating with potential clients their first question is; “Can you
send me a resume?”

Resumes are a black art. There are many, mostly bogus, theories about
what constitutes a good resume and an entire cottage industry has sprung
up to support resume creation. I am sure you have walked down the *power
resume aisle* in your local big-box bookstore marveling at how people
can write entire books on composing three page resumes. Maybe you have
suffered through a corporate *out-placing* where well dressed
*human-resource* types will earnestly criticize your use of bullets and
personal pronouns. Whenever people go on about resumes I always think of
Monty Python’s theory of Brontosauruses.

[Video link: Click for theory of Brontosauruses](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cAYDiPizDIs)

Here’s the nasty truth: a resume is an advertisement! Do you honestly
think anyone would dare to propose a *theory of advertisements?* A good
ad gets noticed and helps sell the product. The same holds for resumes.

I have a simple resume style that has worked well. The only complaints I
get relate to *file types*. Some clients want plain text, some want Word
documents, others want PDFs and most don’t care!

Lately I revised the [LaTeX](http://www.latex-project.org/) version of
my resume. LaTeX is my preferred document format. LaTeX source documents
are simple text files. You can manipulate them with any text editor on
any computer system. Hence LaTeX documents cannot be held hostage by
software vendors that *encode your words* in version specific binary
formats. If you have ever converted a Word document to an old or new
format you will know of what I speak. Because LaTeX files are simple
text it’s easy to share LaTeX on the web. My current resume borrowed
from a number of authors. When I borrow I try to give back. The
following links point to the LaTeX source of my resume and the final PDF
output. Help yourself but be courteous and maintain the [creative common
license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/1.0/) block in the
LaTeX code.

-   [cvh2010pub.zip](http://www.box.net/shared/ef8yxegr0i) zipped resume
    LaTeX source

-   [cvh2010pub.pdf](http://www.box.net/shared/u27ntub3nr) final typeset
    resume


