[Revenge of the PhD
Camera](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/12/04/revenge-of-the-phd-camera/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 05 Dec 2011 05:01:51*

Cameras come in two flavors. There are expensive *serious* cameras used
by serious photographers to take serious photographs and then there are
PhD, (**P**ush **h**ere **D**ummy), cameras. Serious cameras meet the
highest technical standards, lenses are diffraction limited, chromatic
aberration approaches zero, pixel counts match [Nyquist
limits](http://www.normankoren.com/Tutorials/MTF2.html), ISO’s exceed
retinal sensitivity, auto-focus is instantaneous, color spaces are wide,
calibrated and range into the infra-red and ultra-violet. *PhD cameras
don’t go there! PhD cameras provide a button for dummies to push.* Over
the years I’ve ying’ed and yang’ed from serious to PhD cameras. It’s not
that I cannot make up my mind. Camera choice is another eternal struggle
sort of like that squabble between good and evil or light and regular
beers.


When I’m on a serious photography kick I put time, expertise and money
into my pictures. For me serious photography is exhausting. I seek out
worthy subjects, wait for the *right light*, agonize over composition,
experiment with lenses, tweak $f$-stops, adjust shutter speeds and take
as many exposures as light and time allow. Then the post shutter ordeal
begins. Digital imaging processing makes anything possible. You can take
your exposures and like some mad photo-shopping Rumpelstiltskin spin
straw into gold. But, as in the fairy tale, there is a high price,
perfect images will suck years out of you. Photographers often talk
about *workflow* and they aren’t kidding. When I start tweaking my
workflow I know I’m reaching the end of my serious rope. Photography is
one of my hobbies and I never ruin hobbies by turning them into jobs!

Eventually I snap out of it and resume PhD’ing. Unlike serious
photography PhD’ing is effortless and fun. It’s always been fun,
remember [Brownies](http://www.brownie-camera.com/) and
[Instamatics](http://camerapedia.wikia.com/wiki/Instamatic), but this
*is the golden age of PhD photography!* In the last decade PhD cameras
have evolved and mutated from cheap plastic boxes filled with grainy
high-speed ISO film to sophisticated little internet photo-shopping
engines that ride around in our pockets as cell phones. I don’t even
know why they are called cell phones. My iPhone takes hundreds of images
for every *phone call* it processes. It’s really more of an
iCamera+iBrowser that can, on rare occasions, be used as a phone. Based
on [surveys of web image
sites](http://1000memories.com/blog/94-number-of-photos-ever-taken-digital-and-analog-in-shoebox)
I am not the only iCamera user. PhD photography is growing faster than
the national debt.

Explosive growth attracts armies of sinners and saints. Every two-bit
whore chasing a buck is now writing image processing software for cell
phones. In the last two years we’ve seen apps that [stitch panoramas on
the fly](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/360-panorama/id377342622?mt=8),
apply [cheesy photo-shop
effects](http://www.appbrain.com/app/camera-360/vStudio.Android.GPhoto)
and automatically create
[HDR](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High\_dynamic\_range\_imaging) images
by blending two or more exposures. As [Sturgeon’s
law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sturgeon's\_Law) predicts most of
these apps are crap but that’s not a problem for PhD photography. The
goal is to offer a fun button for dummies. My favorite PhD app is a
great little toy called
[Hipstamatic](http://hipstamatic.com/the\_app.html). Hipstamatic
simulates crappy old PhD film cameras loaded with expired film. You can
choose a lens, a film and a flash or you can just shake your iPhone and
let it randomly select these parameters. Shake and shoot; it’s the
revenge of the PhD camera.
