
[Review: The Creature
from Jekyll Island](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/03/17/review-the-creature-from-jekyll-island/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 18 Mar 2014 01:23:27*

In 2008 whatever residual trust I had in American democratic
institutions was irrevocably shattered by the larcenous and criminal
bank bailout. If you recall the bailout, the infamous “[crap
sandwich](http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2008/10/a-second-order/),”
was overwhelmingly opposed by the public, initially rejected by
Congress, but stuffed down our throats anyway. The sky was falling! The
banks had to be saved or the world would end. At the time I knew the
failure of half a dozen of world’s largest banks would be a disaster –
for bankers – and many innocent bystanders, but it was hardly world
ending. Asteroids weren’t falling, super volcanoes weren’t erupting,
nukes weren’t detonating, in the worst case we would have a short sharp,
parasite cleansing, depression followed by the growth of new financial
institutions. This is exactly what happened – in Iceland: the only
country that refused to bail out their banks. The reward for poor
judgment, bad planning and mendacious behavior should be failure. Of
course that is not what happened. That ultimate get out of jail free
institution, The Federal Reserve, kicked into high gear and rescued a
host of institutions that should no longer be with us. It was a complete
undemocratic travesty.

I thought the 2008 bailout was an exception; that the entire outrageous
chain of events was pulled out of the asses – of asses – on the fly.
Edward Griffin’s “crazy” history of the Federal Reserve, written more
than a decade before 2008, clearly shows that the only exceptional thing
about 2008 was scale. The Federal Reserve has been saving banker’s butts
for a century. As long as we have, fiat currency, [fractional reserve
banking](http://wiki.mises.org/wiki/Fractional\_reserve\_banking) and
central banks like the Federal Reserve we’ll have, massive government
debts, never-ending inflation, (money creation), and the relentless
insidious transfer of the costs of bank screwups to an unsuspecting and
stupid public. *This is the way the system is supposed to work!*
Griffin’s footnotes make it clear this was completely understood by the
originators of the Federal Reserve over a century ago. In short, the
“Jekyll island creature” has pulled off the biggest bank job in history.

Most of *The Creature from Jekyll Island* recounts the fascinating
history of central banking in the United States with entertaining asides
into the longer history of money. For millennia “money” was largely
precious metals: Gold and Silver. There are good, *very long-standing
historical reasons,* for this. Even today, given the choice between a
pile of paper dollars and the equivalent amount of Gold, most of us
would still take the Gold. You would think something that has functioned
for five thousand years as global money would be good enough for central
bankers but Gold, in the duplicitous language of bankers and their
economist fanboys, is *insufficiently elastic*. What this means is that
Gold cannot be created and destroyed by *banker will alone*. Barbaric
old unreactive Gold, [forged in the collision of neutron
stars](http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/origin-of-gold-found-in-rare-neutron-star-collisions/2013/07/17/a158bd46-eef2-11e2-bed3-b9b6fe264871\_story.html),
and unevenly dispersed in the interstellar medium, is just too damn hard
to acquire and use as money. What’s needed is something that can be
“poofed” into being on demand.

On course the problem with poofed, or fiat, money is getting poor dumb
suckers to accept it. That’s where the legal tender laws come in.
Central bankers are only one side of the bailout ballet. The bankers
need the power of the state, with its ability to imprison and execute
anyone that balks at taking colored paper for Gold, or gets the silly
idea that they can print some colored paper themselves, to really work
the fiat magic. In turn the state gets preferential access to newly
created, tax levy free, funds to piss away on vote-buying boondoggles.
It’s a great system for bankers, politicians and their many blood
sucking ticks. It’s a shame the rest of us get *inflation raped* paying
for it.

Griffin ends his book with two flights of conspiratorial lunacy: one
pessimistic and the other realistic. If you’re wondering, Griffen holds
*there is no optimistic scenario.* We’re in for a world of economic
butt-hurt when the creature dies. The pessimistic scenario is basically
[1984](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nineteen\_Eighty-Four) central
banker style and the realistic outlines the economic disruptions
required to return to a [silver based
dollar](http://mises.org/daily/4149). Griffin is a better historian than
a science-fiction writer and *Jekyll* would be a better book without
the last two chapters.

Finally, I disagree that there is no optimistic scenario, but I can
forgive Griffin for not seeing one twenty years ago. In 1994 there were
no new ideas about money: just the same old fiat crap served up on
plastic credit cards. In 2014 we have
[Bitcoin](https://bitcoin.org/en/). I hold that the ideas in Bitcoin are
the first genuine monetary innovations in decades. The Bitcoin network
demonstrates how a “nonpoofed” form of sound money can work without
governments or central bankers. Economists are fond of quoting Gresham’s
law: “Bad money drives out good.” With ideas it’s the exact opposite:
“Good ideas drive out bad.” Let’s hope the exceedingly bad Federal
Reserve idea succumbs to better ideas like Bitcoin as soon as possible.
