 
[Review: The Way We Die Now](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/11/18/review-the-way-we-die-now/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 18 Nov 2017 18:11:53*

*The Way We Die Now* is not the best book I’ve read this year but it may
be the most important. In Seamus O’Mahony’s opinion, modern society has
forgotten how to deal with death. There are many reasons for this, the
collapse of religious belief, the demolition of the extended family, the
triumph of the scientific and rational worldview, even our delusions of
curing death “real soon now” contribute to our collective denial. Yet
death persists. Death remains absolute, sovereign, implacable,
terrifying, “majestic and cruel.” Even if we realize our *singularity
fantasies* and greatly extend life death will never be banished. Even
the gods die! We must face death, but must we turn it into a carnival of
“medical excess?”

I have seen medical excess. My mother was diagnosed with Stage IV
Glioblastoma: a form of brain cancer that is so deadly it’s been
nicknamed the terminator. Actually, the terminator is flattered by the
comparison. Some survived their encounter with fictional terminators.
Nobody survives stage IV Glioblastoma: “there is no stage V.” When I
heard mom’s diagnosis I looked for actuarial survival statistics.
Credible statistics for common fatal diseases are harder to track down
than you might expect. I eventually found a paper that cast survival
times in a useful form. Median survival was less than three months for
younger and healthier patients than my mother. She died about two months
after her diagnosis - right on statistical schedule. The universe does
not make personal exemptions.

Her death was inevitable, but the expensive, futile, painful and
isolating medical gauntlet she endured was not. She just wanted to go
home, perhaps to “turn her head to the wall,” perhaps to binge on *The
Big Bang Theory* - she still enjoyed a few silly shows. It doesn’t
matter what the dying choose to do with their remaining hours, but it
sure as hell matters that we honor their choices and the *Way We Die
Now* makes a compelling case that we are failing “to be brave.” I know I
acquiesced to the *medial default* for my mother; I still feel I should
have fought harder for *what she wanted*.

According to O’Mahony, the *medical default is full intervention* even
when it’s pointless and wasteful. He also notes that doctors are in a
no-win situation. If they suggest doing nothing they’re accused of
euthanizing patients. If they go full interventionist Rambo they’re
inflicting needless suffering and profiting from the dying. Both
extremes often end up in court, as if we could fix death with more
litigation. Obviously, something in the middle is the best course and
O’Mahony argues that doctors should not set the middle course.

Our infantile society needs to grow up and face death like adults.
Nothing makes our magical thinking about death clearer than Somerset
Maugham’s[^5497a] observations about a “dog’s death.” Maugham hoped he was
lucky enough to die a dog’s death! A dog’s death is meant to be a
horrible thing but is it really worse than human medical excess? When it
comes to sick animals we are clear-headed and compassionate. We don’t
subject them to futile treatments, we make them comfortable and take
away their pain. I once had a cat that came down with pancreatitis. She
wasted away on the top of our fridge until one day we took her to the
vet. Her death was calm and without terror. My cat had a better death
than my mother. I suspect many pets die with greater dignity than their
owners. This is fundamentally wrong and we all know it.

There are no easy answers; it sucks to be mortal. We can’t say until we
face it ourselves how we should die so how can we dictate to others? I
only hope that when my time comes I have it within me to follow the one
bit of advice O’Mahony offers that may apply to all us – “be brave.”

[^5497a]: The Way We Die Now relates many stories about “celebrity” deaths.
