
[Review: The 
Signal and the Noise](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/03/27/review-the-signal-and-the-noise/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 28 Mar 2013 01:41:07*

There is nothing like being right to make an impression. After calling
the [majority of congressional
districts](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/07/nate-silver-obama-reelection\_n\_2086556.html)
in the 2012 US election [Nate
Silver](http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/) enjoyed his 15
minutes of fame. Before his election prediction I was only dimly aware
of Nate Silver. I knew he worked for the New York Times, but that’s no
longer an indicator of excellence or even sanity. Heck, even Nobel
Prizes no longer guarantee excellence or sanity. Obama, vain narcissist
that he is, was
[embarrassed](http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703746604574463171820234630.html)
by the dolts on the Nobel Peace Prize committee that confused existence
for accomplishment.

It wasn’t Silver’s employer that led me to his book; it was *his stint
as a serious poker player* that told me he wasn’t a standard NYT
brain-dead progressive. ***Progressives do not bet with their own
money!*** They bet with other people’s money. Anyone that puts *their
money where their mouth is* is worth a hearing and Silver is worth a
hearing

*The Signal and the Noise* is a series of essays about making
predictions. It won’t surprise anyone to learn that some fields suffer
poor, dare I say idiotic, predictors. Economists and partisan policy
wonks are among the worst. Silver’s statistics show many of these people
are clueless ideologues or cynical liars. They’re not even reliable
contra-indicators. If only Nancy Pelosi, that Botox saturated crone, was
consistently wrong, rather than randomly moronic, we might profit from
her emissions.

As bad as some predictors are it’s not all bleak. Meteorologists have
dramatically improved their forecasts. A few decades ago it was anyone’s
guess where hurricanes would hit land. Now it’s possible to forecast
landfalls within a hundred miles two days in advance. The weather
service called Katrina before it hit New Orleans. It’s too bad so many
ignored the warning.

One of the best sections in *The Signal and the Noise* deals with the
dangers of “over-fitting”, over-fitting occurs when a model ends up
modeling noise instead of signal. Over-fitting is an egregious
statistical error but human beings are evolved over-fitters. If you
“predict” the wind is shaking a bush and it’s a tiger you’re cat food.
If you predict a tiger is shaking a bush and it’s the wind you have a
bad hair day. Evolution favors the latter. If life is short, nasty and
brutish, it pays to over-fit immediate dangers. This is not the case
when over-fitting tells you something is highly unlikely when it isn’t.

Silver makes a good case for the
[Fukushima](http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Safety-and-Security/Safety-of-Plants/Fukushima-Accident-2011/#.UVOeghfBOSo)
nuclear disaster going down in history as a classic case of the dangers
of over-fitting. Earthquakes are currently unpredictable. Silver goes
over the history of earthquake prediction and it’s sobering. Forecasts
made by 21^st^ century geophysicists, armed with petaflop
supercomputers, are only marginally better than simple historical means.
This is a tough scientific problem made orders of magnitude harder by
the difficulty of collecting data. We cannot directly measure stresses
twenty kilometers underground. Hence the data feeding earthquake models
are *at best* approximate and incomplete. This is unfortunate because
models based on sketchy data are essentially conspiracy theories without
black helicopters. You won’t find many geophysicists making short-term
Vegas bets on the output of their earthquake models.

This doesn’t mean that earthquakes are random or lack order. Earthquakes
are remarkably orderly over geological timescales. They [eerily fit a
power-law
distribution](http://www.pnas.org/content/99/suppl.1/2509.full). This
excellent fit makes it possible to pick any point on the Earth and
compute an earthquake probability. Such probabilities were computed for
the seas near Fukushima but the earthquake model used was over-fitted
and it dramatically underestimated the likelihood of magnitude 9
earthquakes. The Fukushima model had been "tweaked" to echo the fact
that *rare* magnitude 9 earthquakes had not been observed near Japan in
centuries. Instead of following a nice linear log-log plot the Fukushima
plot was “bent” and the bend led to the assumption that it wasn’t
necessary to plan for magnitude 9 earthquakes and potentially huge
tsunamis. Here model over-fitting lead to seawall over-topping. This is
not your average stats 101 screw-up.

Looking back it’s easy to see where people went wrong. Maybe evil crony
capitalists, bent on saving a few yen on concrete, conspired to sabotage
earthquake models before submitting low ball Fukushima seawall bids.
Doesn’t [Lex Luthor](http://dc.wikia.com/wiki/Lex\_Luthor) do this every
other day?  Here it’s not necessary to invoke super-villains, good old fashioned
short-term thinking, fortified with professional hubris, is all that’s
required. Silver makes it abundantly clear that prediction, “[especially
about the future](http://www.larry.denenberg.com/predictions.html)”, is
hard but not necessarily hopeless. This is an excellent book for both
lovers and haters of statistics.
