 
[Social Security Numbers are Broken beyond Repair](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/05/17/social-security-numbers-are-broken-beyond-repair/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 17 May 2015 18:24:39*

Imagine that you are buying a new set of wheels with cash. Being a cash
transaction there is no need to negotiate loans or check credit; you
have the money in your wallet. Usually vendors are delighted when handed
a thick wad of bills but we are living in unusual, no depraved, times.
Before the dealer takes your wad you will probably be asked for your
Social Security Number. WTF you think! It’s a cash transaction; why must
government stick its inept grasping tentacles in your business?

Of course if you are financing a set of wheels, applying for a mortgage,
negotiating a rental, submitting a job application, or buying a fricking
big screen TV, you will be asked, over and over again, for your Social
Security Number. Why are so many tiresome busybodies obsessing over nine
measly, easily forged, digits? Well cowboys and girls, the Social
Security Number has morphed into a general purpose personal tracking
identifier. Busybodies covet this number because once they have it they
can:

1.  Check your credit history.

2.  See if you have ever been in prison.

3.  Determine if you owe money.

4.  Track your movements from one state or city to another.

And god knows what else!

When Social Security was setup in the 1930s paranoid right wingers
darkly warned that Social Security Numbers (SSNs) would be used to track
people and ultimately infringe their freedoms. Silly ancient right
wingers: who really cares that they were completely right about SSNs?
Only criminals, and evil people with things to hide, care about the
widespread abuse of Social Security Numbers. *If you believe this
moronic twaddle please leave your Social Security Number in a comment on
this blog.* You can trust me! I would never abuse your number.

Now if you’re a big government guy or gal you will loudly assert that
it’s perfectly acceptable for the government to maintain *some
identifier* that links you to your Social Security account. On this I
agree, some identifier is required, but Social Security Numbers are
probably the worst possible way to do this. The ideal Social Security
“Number” would:

1.  Unambiguously link you to your Social Security Account.

2.  Be impossible to counterfeit or fake.

3.  Be useless for any other purpose.

The idiotic nine digit scheme used for Social Security Numbers
completely fails all three of these tests.

Let’s start with unambiguous linking. News flash: your Social Security
Number [does not uniquely identify
you](http://www.dailyfinance.com/2010/08/12/your-social-security-number-may-not-be-unique-to-you/).
There are many reasons for SSN duplicates with identity theft being the
leading cause. Is it fair to blame SSN numbers for criminal abuse? Yes
you dumb fucks! Identity systems must operate on the bedrock principle
that people are liars, cheats, and disgusting defecating naked apes.
Always assume the worst of your fellow apes; you will still be
disappointed. Good identifier schemes make it impossible to generate
duplicates regardless of how thoroughly evil or incompetent people are.
Social Security Numbers naively assume we are good people. This is
asking for it.

How hard is it to counterfeit or fake Social Security Numbers? It’s so
damn easy you can go to [this
website](https://fakena.me/fake-social-security-number/) and push a
button. While it’s unlikely that nine random digits will form a valid
SSN it’s clearly not rocket science to concoct plausible SSNs. Good
identifier keys are unavoidably unique. There are [many high quality
unique key
algorithms](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Globally_unique_identifier).
SSNs are crappy keys; any database professional that advocated their use
would be fired on the spot.

As for being useless for other purposes: here the failure is so
complete, so total, and so absolute, that it’s hard to attribute it to
mere government stupidity. I don’t blame the paranoid for thinking it
was a clumsy backdoor scheme to label citizens for other purposes. Heh,
even the official [government Social Security
Page](http://www.ssa.gov/policy/docs/ssb/v69n2/v69n2p55.html) brags that
your SSN has *“come to be used as a nearly universal identifier.”*
Anyone that contests this is an idiot. Every two-bit database out there
has an SSN column in it. Many SSNs are still completely unencrypted;
they’re begging software professionals like me to get into the identity
theft business. Keep that in mind the next time some outfit asks for
your SSN.

When you make a VISA, MasterCard or Apple Pay purchase with a “[chipped
card](http://www.creditcards.com/credit-card-news/emv-faq-chip-cards-answers-1264.php)”
a onetime transaction code is generated and mixed with your credit card
number.[^5047a] This allows the central authority, VISA and MasterCard in
this case, to verify your credit *without creating a permanent number
that is forever tied to your name.* This scheme is vastly more secure
than SSNs but falls short of high quality cryptographic key schemes used
in systems like Bitcoin. The QR code on this blog is a Bitcoin address
with money in it. Try and steal my Bitcoin bitches! The point is there
are sound ways of creating account links that do not invite abuse and
tracking. So why the hell are we are still tolerating static, insecure,
come and get it identity thieves, broken beyond repair, Social Security
Numbers?

[^5047a]: One of the consequences of chipping credit cards is that it is no
    longer necessary to display the number on the card. You only need
    the number to interact with non-chipped devices. Eventually people
    will figure this out and start asking for credit cards that do not
    display the number. I see a great advertising campaign in the
    future. “You can get our numberless smart card or their numbered
    dumb fuck card. What’s it going to be?”
