
[Society Prefers Dead Liabilities](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2023/12/04/society-prefers-dead-liabilities/) 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 04 Dec 2023 19:11:58*

The other day, while trolling the fetid depths of
[Reddit,](https://www.reddit.com/) I was amused by the response to this
story about more and more [boomers becoming
homeless](https://moneywise.com/news/economy/rate-of-homeless-baby-boomers-increasing).
The nugatory netizens of Reddit were not sympathetic. They blame the
execrable boomer generation for many of the ills, both real and
imaginary, that have befallen them. *Yes, boomer hatred is booming!* As
a bombastic boomer, all I can say is get in line, kids; nobody hates
them more than I do. The raging Redditers were particularly incensed
that they, the *gen-what-evers*, will now have to clean up boomer messes
--- and diapers --- while forking over vast sums to do so. It turns out
that paying for old, unproductive people is not popular. Who could have
predicted that?

I labor under many illusions, but I have never swallowed the bilge that
"society" cares about the welfare of the "unproductive." Of course, what
counts as "productive" depends on *what* is doing the counting. Maybe a
tortured homeless artist, dissolving in an opioid haze while awaiting a
muse's touch, might be considered worthy in some dissolute domains. But
I can assure you that is not how governments measure worth. They have a
more straightforward method. Are you paying taxes? If you are paying
taxes, you are worth something. If you are not paying taxes, you are
worthless. It gets worse. If you are receiving net benefits, you are
worse than useless; you are a liability, a parasite, and society would
be better off if you were dead. So, the Redditers have a point. Boomers
are now mostly expensive liabilities, and while the *gen-what-evers* are
*not currently on board* with murdering them, they wouldn't mind if
something else did. *All entities seek to eliminate liabilities.*

We all know this, but we pretend it's horrible to resent supporting the
useless. See all those unhoused addicts shitting in public parks; it's
going to take some fine bullshit to rationalize their utility, their
human dignity, their inherent worth, and the pressing need to put them
up in subsidized homes and throw good money after bad. The argument
becomes even more challenging when the money comes out of *your
pockets*. Oh, in case you're wondering, you don't get to spend other
people's money!

How much are *you* (just you) willing to pay to help the homeless? When
asking myself such questions, I play an order of magnitude game. Here's
how it goes. John, would you pay one dollar to help the homeless? I'm a
good sport, so sure. Have a dollar.

Would you pay ten dollars to help the homeless? Sure, I can pony up ten
bucks. Would you pay one hundred dollars to help the homeless? Now I'm
beginning to think about the money. Is that wreck of a human being
degrading public spaces worth a hundred bucks? Ok, I will cough up a
hundred bucks, but this had better be a one-off. Would you pay one
thousand dollars to help the homeless? Now I am absolutely thinking
about the money. With a thousand bucks, I could get a decent camera lens
or pay for five years of Amazon Prime. Let's face it: there are a
million better ways to spend your money. OK, would you pay ten thousand
dollars to help the homeless? Uh --- hard no! The order of magnitude
game quickly sets bounds on your compassion. I care roughly one thousand
*per annum* for the homeless[^7947x1] If government financial rapists (tax
authorities) come for more, I will bitterly resent it and use every
electoral opportunity to punish the rapists. I identify as a
*compassion-free device!*

Because our "compassion" is biologically limited to a few people,
crafting "compassionate government policy" is a fool's errand. I don't
want to pay for your compassion; I doubt you want to pay for mine. We
can't even agree on what constitutes compassion or devise objective
measures for it. We have built many devices to measure electron mass,
but I challenge you to build a *compassion meter*. You will quickly
discover that "compassion" has no physical basis. At best, "compassion"
is a word associated with the behavior of some social animals that
derive evolutionary benefits from cooperation. Beyond that, compassion
is airy fairy sky fairy nonsense, and basing public policy on it is pure
idiocy.

Hence, insurance companies, corporations, governments, and even
homeowner associations base policies on things that can be measured,
like cool, clear cash. And when such stark measures are applied, it
turns out that society prefers dead liabilities.

[^7947x1]: Not matter how loudly woke grammar checkers bitch about my harmful
    and hurtful tone, I will not choose another term for "the homeless."
    Some things hurt and covering them with euphemisms doesn't help.
