 
[Still Totally Awesome](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/08/27/still-totally-awesome/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 27 Aug 2017 20:36:53*

The total solar eclipse of August 21, 2017, was my fourth complete solar
eclipse. I’ve seen two annular eclipses, 1994 and 2012, and two total
eclipses, 2001 and 2017. Annular eclipses, or rings of fire, are worthy
spectacles but nothing compares to a total solar eclipse. Some things
have to be experienced to be fully appreciated. Unless you have stood
under the Moon’s shadow you don’t really know what it’s like. Pictures
and recordings all miss the mark. Maybe one day, when virtual reality
directly hooks into all our senses, it may be possible to record
totality but until then you have to get under the Moon’s shadow and,
this is absolutely crucial, *only totality counts!*

Here in the Boise Idaho area, many people decided 99% was good enough.
This is not even wrong! The August 21^st^ eclipse took place right in
the middle of Western Idaho State Fair and like all make a buck
opportunists the fair promoted an “enjoy the eclipse with us event.”
There was only one problem: Boise wasn’t in the totality zone so
advertising dollars were spent reassuring fair-goers that 99% was close
enough; that a measly 1% difference was no big deal; that it wasn’t
worth refraining from shoveling junk food down your obese pie-hole on
the overpriced midway. Cosmic spectacles cannot be allowed to suppress
the bottom line.

Fortunately, I knew better. The difference between 99% and 100% is vast.
Solar eclipse awesomeness is not linear! It’s actually more like a
logarithmic step function with a really big step at totality. XKCD
accurately summarized this his with recent eclipse cartoon. He correctly
notes that total solar eclipses are off the scale.

There was no way I was going to miss totality, especially when it was
almost in my backyard, so we got up at 4:00 am on the 21^st^ and headed
east to Mackay Idaho. I’d already driven around southern Idaho and
Oregon scouting eclipse watching locations. My preferred location was on
Sunset Peak in the Lost River mountain range of Idaho. Unfortunately,
Sunset Peak required that we climb the mountain the night before, camp
out near the summit, and then wait for the eclipse the next morning. It
would have been cool. Sunset Peak is slightly over 3,050 meters with
nice views to the west and east. It would have been possible to watch
the Moon’s shadow race over the Boise and Sawtooth mountains, blacking
out one peak after another. I was all ready to pack up and go but my
wife no longer camps out in tents. This is a problem I am still working
on.

With the mountain summit vetoed we checked out the Snake River Valley
near Huntington Oregon and Stanley Idaho. Both locations are very scenic
but both required traversing easily congested roads. To ensure totality
we would have had to go the night before. So we were right back to
camping in tents. My third option Mackay Idaho was a nice mixture of,
easily reached on good roads, large enough to find parking on public
lands, and far enough out-of-the-way to avoid big crowds.

Mackay is about four hours from Meridian. To make it before first
contact, shortly after 10:00 am local time, and to miss projected heavy
traffic, we started at 4:00 am. In retrospect, we could have left later.
Traffic was light on I84 and almost nonexistent on Idaho highway 20. We
hardly saw another car until Highway 20 crossed the road to Sun Valley.
Sun Valley was in the totality zone but it was too far from the center
line for me. Leaving early paid off when we reached Craters of the Moon:
a smoke reddened Sun was creeping over the eastern horizon and
illuminating the black volcanic flows.

Turning north at Arco Idaho we headed north to Mackay. There was more
smoke in the air than I would have liked. The further north we went the
thicker the smoke got. When we reached Mackay you could smell the smoke.
Mackay sits in a valley. Details on mountains to the east and west were
obscured by smoke but the sky was completely clear of clouds and at
totality the sun would be high overhead. I worried about smoke’s impact
on the corona but I cheered myself up with the thought that sunblock
cream wouldn’t be necessary.

Being two hours early Mali decided to nap in the car while I walked
around Mackay taking pictures. Main Street was blocked off and street
vendors were setting up tented stalls and big meat smokers. Others were
busy selling souvenirs. Most of the stores were closed. The eclipse was
a good excuse for a holiday. I waited in a donut line and chatted with
other eclipse tourists. One Maryland couple had just arrived in a rented
car from Salt Lake City. A few Italians had come all the way from
Naples. I saw lots of Utah, California, Alberta and Nevada license
plates. Total solar eclipses gather the multitudes.

After checking out downtown Mackay I drifted back to the Centennial Rest
Stop where Spanish science students were setting up equipment to observe
the eclipse. They had come all the way from Spain to watch the eclipse
in tiny Mackay Idaho. The moon’s shadow turns even the most unlikely
places into tourist attractions. The scientific utility of total solar
eclipses in the 21^st^ century is not what it used to be but eclipses do
offer great excuses for globe trekking and the re-enactment of
historical experiments. The Spaniards were busy preparing weather
balloons and getting ready to photograph the corona. They were also
making objective lens solar filters for people who brought binoculars
and telephoto lens. I considered having some made for my 16x70
astronomical binoculars but decided against it. Instead, I went back to
our car, woke up Mali, and then started hauling eclipsing paraphernalia
to the viewing area. Unlike many present, we didn’t have a lot of gear:
just binoculars, three-legged folding stools, cell phones, cameras, and
eclipse shades. Shortly after setting up our stools the Spanish students
started counting down to first contact. Shortly after 10:00 am the
eclipse started.

At first, people were excited to see the Moon slowly nibble at the Sun’s
disk but they quickly quieted down. I got the impression that many were
questioning the so-called awesomeness of solar eclipses. It’s just a
boring black cookie-bite Sun. What’s the big deal? I think many were
also surprised by how long it took for the Moon to cover the sun. I’d
seen this phase before so I wandered around the crowd taking pictures
while the Moon slowly covered the sun.

Fifteen minutes before totality the changing light was getting hard to
ignore. The human eye adapts logarithmically to changing light levels.
At this point in the eclipse more than 90% of the sun was covered,
dropping light levels by a factor of ten, but it was only in the last
five minutes that it became obvious that it was getting dark. I spotted
a flock of pigeons gathering on the fences nearby. They were disturbed
by the change in routine. As totality approached people started counting
down. I peeled off my eclipse shades and glanced directly at the waning
light. As the sun squeezed down to a pinhole of brilliant light I saw
dazzling rainbow halos around the sun. I’m developing cataracts. When I
stare into bright point sources I see rainbow halos. I had never looked
at a point source as bright as the Sun and the effect was both beautiful
and alarming. I will have to do something about my cataracts in a few
years.

At totality, the blasé crowd erupted. Many started squealing, pointing,
and yelling. Mali pointed to a flock of pigeons, the same flock I had
spotted on the fence before, tearing through the air. I briefly looked
all around to see the 360-degree sunset. I was expecting a deep orange
dusk all around up but it failed to appear. We were too close to the
mountains. Then I pointed my 16x70 binoculars at the eclipsed sun. Three
flares were visible and the corona’s filaments were as beautiful as
ever. The corona was not as extensive as the 2001 eclipse and the core
region near the sun seemed brighter. I looked around for planets and
stars. Venus was easy. I was expecting to spot Mercury and Mars but I
the only star I saw near the Sun I later identified as Regulus. I didn’t
try to photograph my first total solar eclipse but near the end of
totality I grabbed my DSLR and fired off a few 300mm telephoto shots
just to see what might come up.

Then, as suddenly as it started, the Sun burst forth. One bystander
yelled, “Do it again!” The small crowd kept buzzing as more of the Sun
was exposed. The consensus was, “Yeah, total solar eclipses are freaking
awesome and totality is totally worth seeing.” Later, while standing in
line to view the Sun and receding Moon through a Hydrogen Alpha filtered
telescope, I overheard a fellow in the crowd say, “I’d read about shadow
chasers, people who go all over the world to see total eclipses, I
thought that was crazy, until today!”

The next total solar eclipse is in 2019. The greatest eclipse is in the
Pacific, later the shadow runs over parts of Chile and Argentina. I’ve
always wanted to visit the large observatories in Chile and view the
southern sky from the super dark high elevation skies of the Atacama.
This with totality is close to amateur astronomer heaven.
