 
[1421: The Crank History of Gavin Menzies](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/08/11/1421-the-crank-history-of-gavin-menzies/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 11 Aug 2011 05:09:12*

Crank history is big business and it’s getting bigger. For reasons that
infuriate skeptics there is a never-ending parade of pseudo-historians
spouting rubbish that is eagerly devoured by a credulous pig ignorant
public. Gavin Menzies’ ludicrous tome, [1421: The Year China Discovered
America](https://www.1421exposed.com/html/1421\_and\_all\_that\_junk.html),
(also titled 1421: The Year China Discovered the World), is the finest
example of delusional sophistry I’ve encountered since Graham Hancock’s
insane [Finger Prints of the
Gods](https://www.csicop.org/si/show/tracing\_graham\_hancockrsquos\_shifting\_cataclysm/).

About the only thing you can say for Gavin’s fantasy is that, (unlike
Hancock’s Finger Prints – the
“[science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fingerprints\_of\_the\_Gods)”
behind the movie
[2012](https://blog.moviefone.com/2011/01/03/nasa-names-most-realistic-and-unrealistic-sci-fi-films-of-all-ti/)),
1421 is remotely plausible. It’s to bad that *remotely plausible* does
not make your case! Skeptics are
[hard-asses](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/29/hard-ass-skeptic-rules/)
we demand rigorous and repeatedly verified evidence before deeming
suppositions *possibly not crap*! By this standard Gavin falls way
short. I’m not going to catalog Gavin’s many errors, omissions and
deceptions. That task has already been done by an army of critics. You
can look
[here](https://www.csicop.org/sb/show/zheng\_he\_in\_the\_americas\_and\_other\_unlikely\_tales\_of\_exploration\_and\_discov/)
and
[here](https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://www.e-perimetron.org/Vol\_2\_4/Wade.pdf\&pli=1)
and [here](https://www.asianreviewofbooks.com/new/?revID=201) and
[here](https://badarchaeology.wordpress.com/tag/gavin-menzies/). In
particular [Bill Hartz’s exhaustive
demolition](https://www.dightonrock.com/gavinsfantalyland.htm) is a
bracing tonic for Gavin’s numbing elixir.

To get the gist of Gavin’s arguments let’s look at one of his claims. On
page 241, (paperback edition), Gavin first mentions the *Sacramento
Junk*. The Sacramento Junk is *allegedly* the remains of a large wooden
ship entombed under a sand bank in the Sacramento river of California.
Ok, so far so good! We have a wooden wreck in a river. The Chinese junks
Gavin imagined sailing around the world had unique characteristics that
would easily distinguish them from plain old Pacific west coast wrecks.
For example:

1.  They had 15th century teak hulls.

2.  Metal bins bolted hull compartments together.

3.  They used silk sails.

4.  They often carried porcelain, seeds and trade goods.

If the Sacramento Junk is the remains of a 15th century junk it looks
like identifying it would be an archaeological no-brainer! All we have
to do is sample the site, collect some 15th century teak wood for carbon
dating, and bingo the case for the Chinese reaching the west coast of
the America’s before Columbus is looking promising. Gavin describes
drilling into the sand bank, extracting some wood and carbon dating it
to 1410. *Isn’t science wonderful?*

**Here are a few questions.**

-   Where the hell is the Sacramento Junk?

Your impressive end-notes mention collecting samples in 2002 and 2003. I
believe GPS was up and running. Could we have exact coordinates please?

-   Was the wood teak?

If you’re looking for teak ships you might want to consult a wood
expert. Teak, even old rotting teak, is easily identified. Look into it.

-   How many samples were carbon dated?

-   Where the hell are the lab reports, sample photographs and other
    documents?

-   Did you notify the historic relic Nazi’s of your amazing Chinese
    wreck?

You almost need a permit to weed your own damn garden in California for
fear of disturbing native artifacts yet somehow you pillaged an
ultra-historic wreck without the *save our culture* weenies whining —
yeah I once lived in California. With so many simple facts omitted you
wonder if the Sacramento Junk is a figment of Gavin’s lurid imagination.

Gavin repeats this pattern of building a case for the *Chinese Stopped
Here* over and over again and, *without exception*, always omits basic
information that would lend credence to his claims. *You need to set
your bullshit detector on maximum when sailing with Gavin!*
