
[The First Total Solar Eclipse of the 21st Century](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/04/25/the-first-total-solar-eclipse-of-the-21st-century/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 25 Apr 2024 22:29:07*

Earlier this month (April 8, 2024), a total solar eclipse cut through
Mexico, the United States, and Canada. Total solar eclipses are
paramount spectacles. It's unlikely you will see anything else in your
short, pointless life that will match a total eclipse. Thus, whenever an
eclipse passes nearby, you should endeavor to place yourself in the
moon's shadow and bathe in its awesomeness. So, I am ashamed to confess
that I missed April's totality. Oh, I did observe a *partial* in my
Idaho backyard (we were well off the path of totality), and even
partials are fine sights in solar binoculars. On eclipse day, two large
sunspots were visible in my solar binoculars. I dutifully noted them
with a sketch in my *Stellar Register*. Like many amateur astronomers, I
maintain an observer's log.

[Image link: Stellar Register log book sketch of April 8, 2024 partial eclipse.](https://bakerjd99.files.wordpress.com/2024/04/april_2024_partial_sketch.jpg)

While updating my notes, I read my log entry for my first total solar
eclipse. My first total was special, even by elevated total eclipse
standards. It was the first total of the 21^st^ century. I date the
start of the 21^st^ century from this eclipse. Here's my slightly edited
log entry. Pictures from this eclipse trip can be seen by [clicking
here](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Zambia-Eclipse-Trip-1).

-   *Date: June 21, 2001*

-   *Site: Zambian schoolyard 89.9 km from Ndeke Hotel*

-   *Time: 12:00* *--- 4:00 pm local*

-   *GPS Waypoint: ZECLIP*

-   *South Latitude: 14.86177* *(degrees)*

-   *East Longitude: 27.70558 (degrees)*

-   *Elevation: 1158 meters*

The eclipse was perfect! I have a feeling I could see the next hundred
eclipses and not top today.

To begin, the weather was perfect. We left the Ndeke Hotel at 8:00 am.
Before leaving, I looked around the sky for clouds, but none could be
seen. The sky remained absolutely clear all day. Better eclipse weather
could not have been catered. The bus ride to the schoolyard *[Civilized
Adventures](https://ca.linkedin.com/company/civilized-adventures)* had
arranged for us was long and dusty. We took the "great northern road"
out of Lusaka. About 60 kilometers north of Lusaka, we turned onto a
dusty, unpaved road. For the next 2 Â½ hours, the bus slowly crept the
remaining 40 kilometers to the school. All this effort bought us about
twenty seconds of totality. The eclipse was visible from the Lusaka
hotel grounds, and until I saw totality, I wondered if this ride was
worth it.

It was!

We arrived shortly before noon. School kids and their teachers carried
their desks out of the school and set them up under a large tree for our
lunch. We quickly ate lunch and then waited for about one hour. At
1:39:52, the moon touched the sun's disk. I counted down the seconds on
my GPS, then looked up through my pane of welding glass and saw the
moon's disk cut into the sun.

The moon steadily advanced over the sun's disk for the next hour and
twenty minutes. The quality of the light slowly changed. A soft white
evening light filled the soccer field as most of the sun's disk
disappeared. People held up their interlaced fingers and cast crescents
on the ground. Some people poked holes in white cardboard sheets and
projected crescent letters on sheets and t-shirts. ZAMBIA 2001 was a
favorite.

[Image link: Casting sun crescents during the eclipse onset.](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Zambia-Eclipse-Trip-1/i-Zx8CXwz/A)

As totality approached, Mali and I stood together with others on the
soccer field and watched the sun disappear behind the moon with our
eclipse glasses. At totality, people started yelling. I ripped off my
eclipse glasses and looked up as the last brilliant spike of sunlight
was swallowed up. In its dying flash, a brilliant ring of light with a
huge flare zipped over the sun. People cried, "The diamond ring." It did
look like a diamond ring. On the ground, we saw the famous ["shadow
band" ripples of light.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shadow_bands)
Then, the glare was instantly gone, leaving a perfect black hole in the
sky surrounded by the purest white corona.

Through binoculars, totality was awesome. The corona was streaming away
from the sun, and brilliant red prominences could be seen on the sun's
edge. Roughly in this pattern:

[Image link: My sketch of prominences for the June 21, 2001 eclipse.](https://bakerjd99.files.wordpress.com/2024/04/prominences.jpg)

Looking around the sky, which was as dark as twilight, I could see three
objects: Jupiter, Sirius, and Saturn to the east. There was a sunset
glow low on all horizons. Mali started yelling about the prominences and
handed me her binoculars. I took a quick look and passed them back to
her. For the rest of totality, we both stared through our binoculars
until the lower edge of the sun started to flare.

When the sun's edge broke free of the moon, I turned away and looked at
the crowd. It is amazing how bright the smallest sliver of the sun's
disk is. When just a dot of the sun returned, it was instantly daylight
again, a weird blue dim daylight but still daylight. I couldn't believe
that over three minutes had passed. They were the shortest three minutes
of my life.

Two words about total solar eclipses: **HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!**

*Also, 20 on a scale of 10! Three thumbs up! Really better than sex!*
