## [The Great White North: Now with Shiny Pony Capital Controls](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/02/17/the-great-white-north-now-with-shiny-pony-capital-controls/) {#the-great-white-north-now-with-shiny-pony-capital-controls .unnumbered}

*Posted: 18 Feb 2022 01:28:31*

I take pride in ignoring what some perceptive individuals have labeled
the "misleadia." Our garbage press spends more time pushing their
contradictory agendas than providing useful information. I monitor their
*tone* but immediately consign the majority of their claims to the
*almost certainly crap unless overwhelming and independently verified*
bin. But, occasionally, events force the *garbage misleadia* to actually
report something important. Today, February 17, 2022, something of great
importance occurred in Canada[^7307x1] Of course, only people with room
temperature and above IQs will consider this of great importance.

Today Canada's [Finance Minister Chrystia
Freeland](https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/ottawa-protests-frozen-bank-accounts-1.6355396)
announced new measures that will allow Canadian Banks to "temporarily"
seize bank accounts of individuals associated with the infamous [truck
convoy
protests](https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/london/trucker-protest-convoy-southwestern-ontario-1.6329118)
that have been annoying *Princess Truedope*, formerly known as Prime
Minister Trudeau: aka [*Shiny
Pony*](https://www.michiganradio.org/2016-03-08/justin-trudeau-the-shiny-pony-who-became-canadas-prime-minister),
for the last few weeks.

Vast amounts of *misleadia* time have been devoted to the truck protests
but basically, people in Canada are fed up with feckless and largely
ineffective COVID restrictions and want to get back to their lives. If
lock-downs, mask mandates, school closures, social distancing, sending
people home, and so-fucking-on, had actually "crushed the curve" the
public might be in a better mood but the simple fact is they did not. We
have run a worldwide experiment and jurisdictions that did little or
nothing about COVID did not fare much worse than those that imposed the
most severe restrictions. Most COVID deaths, based on simple body
counts, have been old obese male porkers. In the US, the *statistically
typical* COVID casualty is an old fat unvaccinated white guy with
multiple comorbidities that probably voted for Trump. Yes, the
*misleadia* pretends to care about COVID culling *trumpy porkers* but in
their dark stupid souls, they celebrate every death. And, why not, every
porker struck from the Medicare and Social Security roles saves money
that can be better wasted on progressive *woke-works*[^7307x2]

And that brings us to what happened in Canada. The government has
basically implemented a politically motivated [Capital
Control](https://corporatefinanceinstitute.com/resources/knowledge/economics/capital-controls/)
scheme. If the Canadian government doesn't approve of your political
donations they can now legally seize your bank accounts. It's like a
Canadian version of the despicable US Patriot Act, ehh! I found it
interesting that Freeland regrets this action; she damn well should,
because the message Canada is sending the world is crystal fucking
clear: **YOUR MONEY IS NO LONGER SAFE IN CANADA!**

If you're looking for a country to park money in, scratch Canada off the
list. If you have significant assets and holdings in Canada I'd start
the process of discreetly moving them elsewhere. Capital Controls are
pure bureaucratic tyranny.

The truck protests and COVID will soon be over but this idiotic Canadian
law will persist for decades. Given the Trudeau family tradition of
declaring national emergencies over political inconveniences, the first
Trudeau invoked the War Measures Act because of one dead body, prior
Prime Ministers needed World Wars, and now princess has surpassed dead
old dad by essentially invoking martial law over illegal 18 wheeler
parking. Do you really want your money subject to nonentities like
Trudeau? Unfortunately, Canada has a nasty authoritarian streak. It's
not something we like to show in public but push a little and it emerges
with alacrity.

You've been warned!

[^7307x1]: One of Canada's chief attractions is its relative lack of
    importance.

[^7307x2]: *Woke-works* are are projects that always require other people's
    money. "Wokies" (woke-people) never spend their own money. Only
    chumps put their money where their mouth is!
