
[The Great
Verizon Data Famine](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/01/15/the-great-verizon-data-famine/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 16 Jan 2014 04:11:02*

The other day I visited my local Verizon store for the fourth freaking
time! My mission was simple: upgrade my goddamn phone and change our
account from my wife’s name to mine. In sane retail environments
long-standing customers with impeccable payment histories get treated
like royalty. I know it will come as a shock to all you parasitic
socialists out there but *it is the paying customer, and only the paying
customer, that is keeping civilization’s lights on!* I understand and
appreciate the need for businesses to make profits and for the last
three years Verizon has profited from my patronage and I have benefited
from their excellent cell service. We had a mutually beneficial
relationship but now I’m wondering if this marriage can be saved.

I have no technical complaints about Verizon. The engineers at Verizon
clearly know what they are doing but it looks like the administrative
and sales division’s model themselves on the
[DMV](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=DMV) or Obama’s
[healthcrap.gov](http://obamacaregov.us/). I’ve seen this before. Most
software companies harbor competent to brilliant programmers yet are
often fronted by ethically challenged sales baboons. My father, a
retired petroleum engineer, used to say, “It’s a good thing oil is so
valuable and customers are beating down our doors because head office
couldn’t sell shit to a house fly.” I know it’s not my place, as a
motivated shit seeking house fly, to question the sales practices of
multi-billion dollar enterprises but, to quote a very wise old white
guy, “you’ve confused me with [someone who gives a
crap.](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=call%20someone%20who%20gives%20a%20shit)”

When I first walked into the Verizon store I wanted an accurate answer
to this question:

**How much will my monthly bill be if:**

1.  **I pay the full retail cost of the phone upfront.** Old white guys
    do not buy on credit because old white guys have learned the hard
    way that *buying anything on credit means you eventually pay more.*
    I am not interested in paying more. I have a very bad attitude when
    it comes to paying more. My butthole has been reamed often enough,
    long enough and hard enough that it’s now operating on a strict cash
    upfront basis.

2.  **And if I have an uncapped 4G data plan.** Cell providers
    constantly go on about their unlimited data plans yet down in the
    fine print — old white guys always read the fine print — you
    typically see “limited to two gigabytes per month.” Two gigabytes is
    not unlimited, four gigabytes is not unlimited, fifty
    [yottabytes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yottabyte) is not
    unlimited; unlimited means arbitrarily high.

It took two trips to the same store to get a simple price quote. The
quoted rate was \$69.99 per month. This is close to my current rate and
since I’m burning another \$39.99 per month on Internet cable it looked
like I could cancel cable, divert all my residential Internet traffic
through an iPhone 4G hot spot and save about thirty bucks a month.

I realized I would have to go on a data diet. 4G connections are faster
than 3G but 4G is still *much slower* than cable Internet. The cable
provider in St. Louis, Charter,[^4483a] runs at 30 megabits per second. This
is about five times faster than 4G. 4G is okay for blogging, modest
sub-gigabyte downloads, uploading a few dozen high-resolution pictures
and normal web browsing. 4G is not up to *irritant free* HD streaming.
You can stream but the image is often downgraded to a blocky low
resolution mess. I planned on giving up streaming because TV, whether
broadcast or streamed, is still mostly time-wasting garbage. I was
looking forward to reallocating my streaming time to good old-fashioned
paper[^4483b] book reading.

After doing my research, considering the options and allocating funds I
returned to the same Verizon store I had visited three times with the
intention of plunking down the full cost of an iPhone 5s and signing
another two-year service contract at the price I was previously quoted.
Then things went horribly wrong. First, we had to call my wife to change
the name on our account from hers to mine. The simple act of changing
the account name voided my unlimited data. I went from an uncapped plan
to a two gigabyte plan. Then, as a final affront, it turns out that you
if you actually want to use your iPhone’s hot spot you need to pay
another \$30.00 per month on top of your normal data plan. In other
words my bill would be a few cents shy of \$100.00 per month. So, I
would pay roughly the same as my current Verizon and Charter bills
combined and end up with a connection that is five times slower. Old
white guys are slow and stupid but not that stupid.

Instead of walking out of the store with a shiny new iPhone 5s and
another two-year contract I left with my old iPhone 4 and a downgraded,
but equally expensive data plan. I am now looking at other options. I
will probably retain cable and cut off all cell phone data. Most of my
cell phone data moves over Wi-Fi so why pay Verizon, or another
provider, \$30.00 bucks per month to keep up on Twitter tripe. Verizon’s
sales did a bang up job here. They convinced a loyal and reasonably
happy customer that it’s time to take a serious look at the competition.
I was planning on a data diet but not a data famine. [Can you hear me
now!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMblePw7eJs)

[^4483a]: [Charter](https://www.charter.com/) Internet is a binary
    operation. When it’s working it works very well, but over that last
    three years I’ve watched it go down more often than a cheap street
    prostitute. Right now it’s down. Charter outages are annoying but
    they’re usually quickly resolved.

[^4483b]: [EBooks are developing nasty data mining
    habits.](http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052702304870304577490950051438304)
    I have no desire to expose the precise details of my reading to
    busy bodies. This doesn’t mean I am giving up on eBooks but I am
    giving up on on-line eBooks. I now demand complete control of the
    eBook file on a device that I can shut off logging and
    communication. *If you don’t control it you cannot trust it.*
