 
[The Hunger Games: a Libertarian Dead Teenager Movie.](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/03/24/the-hunger-games-a-libertarian-dead-teenager-movie/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 24 Mar 2012 23:12:49*

I’ve always enjoyed watching teenagers die. Even when I was a teenager,
back in the early Pleistocene, I couldn’t get enough adolescent
annihilation. Now that I am a certified, some would say certifiable,
drooling old fart boomer I enjoy it even more. Youthful folly: it’s
riveting entertainment for the elderly. Given my macabre inclinations I
looked forward to the [Hunger
Games](https://www.thehungergamesmovie.com/) with the same — *oh my god,
lol, like enthusiasm* — of a screeching teenage girl which, oddly, is
the movie’s target demographic. Well did the Hunger Games disappoint
and, more importantly, is it worth ten bucks? In two words: **no** and
**yes**.

The world of the Hunger Games is your typical progressive green fascist
paradise. The sort of place our [global warming
alarmists](https://www.thenewamerican.com/usnews/politics/11094-ethical-meltdown-global-warming-alarmists-defend-peter-gleicks-theft-fraud),
whale saving
[eco-warriors](https://bardofely.hubpages.com/hub/Was-Charles-Manson-the-first-eco-warrior),
[Volt driving
poseurs](https://autos.aol.com/article/why-the-chevy-volt-is-attracting-wealthy-buyers/),
[anti-capitalist
philosophers](https://www.thefreemanonline.org/book-reviews/the-complete-idiots-guide-to-economics/)
and [leader venerating
loons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KI-BCbKuJGA) would like to live.
Panem, the principal nation-state depicted in the Hunger Games, is split
into two familiar classes: the haves and the have-nots. The haves live
in a gleaming special
[Capitol](https://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/microsoftpri0/2017796920\_touring\_the\_hunger\_games\_panems\_capitol\_city\_with.html)
city and the have-nots grunge away their pointless little people lives
in twelve impoverished out-lying districts. Naked force keeps everything
in a nice green line. Sure the people in the Capitol while away their
carefree days in an endless who can dress like the gayest circus clown
contest while the peons in the outer districts fantasize about bread but
[sacrifices must be made to manage our carbon
footprint.](https://thehumanfuture.cbc-network.org/2012/03/global-warming-hysteria-embracing-their-inner-transhumanist/)

To break the oppressive tedium of face painting, hair dressing and color
coordination every year the rulers of Panem select twenty-four lucky
teenage [Tributes](https://thehungergames.wikia.com/wiki/Tributes) from
the twelve out-lying districts and make them fight to the death in
Panem’s version of ultimate survivor: The Hunger Games. There’s some
background filler about how the games are a punishment and reminder of a
long ago civil war that went badly for the out-lying districts. The
games, as one smarmy TV announcer played by [Stanley
Tucci](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm0001804/) said, “bring us together.”
Yeah, there’s nothing like raw fear and continual humiliation to bring a
people together.

Face paint and swashbuckling hot heroine, (played by [Jennifer
Lawrence](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm2225369)), aside the world of the
Hunger Games is the most credible Sci-Fi dystopia to emerge in years.
The laws of physics hold in this movie! There’s no flying faster than
the speed of light, no summoning of magical or supernatural forces and
no hinging entire
[pocahantian](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/01/04/avatar-pocahontas-in-spac\_n\_410538.html)
plot lines on imaginary
[Unobtainium](https://open.salon.com/blog/the\_new\_number\_two/2010/01/18/unobtainium\_is\_a\_joke\_and\_so\_is\_your\_movie).
Nothing depicted in the Hunger Games is, as far as we know, impossible.
We could build Panem today with off-the-shelf technology. It’s probably
lost of the popcorn crowd but the world’s physical plausibility is a
powerful frame for the story because this shit has already happened. The
mayhem of Hunger Games is no worse than what transpired for centuries in
Roman amphitheatres, Aztec ball courts or medieval jousting tournaments.
Humans can be gamed to the death for the filmiest of reasons. This is
the real horror of the film; it’s not much a stretch from where we’ve
been, to where we are, to what we might become.

I do not fear imaginary monsters; there are plenty of real ones to worry
about and the real Hunger Game monsters are with us in now. 
Our biggest monster is our naive belief that we’ve put all this
aside: that no modern democratic state could degenerate into a tidy
Panemian tyranny, that liberty and freedom, once achieved, is eternal.
I’m not so sanguine; we’re a lot closer to a Panem than you might think.
If you handed out firearms to the contestants of your average reality TV
show we’d be there: minus the green high-speed maglev trains of course.
(Don’t worry there’s a stimulus
[boondoggle](https://highspeedboondoggle.com/) for the maglev trains.)
Ask yourself, if we armed the
[Kardashians](https://www.eonline.com/on/shows/kardashians/index.html)
and made them fight to death on TV how many would care, how many would
be relieved, how many Vegas bets would be made? I suspect most would
dress up in their gayest apparel and party like Panemians celebrating
another dead teenager.
