
[The Myth 
of Sisyphus: Camus’s Absurd Prototype](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/03/15/the-myth-of-sisyphus-camuss-absurd-prototype/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 16 Mar 2013 04:37:34*

In 1942, with World II raging, readers of [The Myth of
Sisyphus](http://www.amazon.com/Myth-Sisyphus-Other-Essays/dp/0679733736)
could easily identify with Camus’s absurd man. Not only is man absurd he
has reduced his entire world to absurdity. Now, seventy-plus years
later, Sisyphus readers are more likely to politely yawn and wonder what
the fuss is about. Camus’s themes are not trivial or obvious but we,
denizens of the early 21^st^ century, are thoroughly habituated to them.
Absurd is now beyond mainstream; how else can one explain facile growths
like Facebook. Just like homosexuals kidnapped the word “gay” and
changed its meaning Camus abducted “absurd” and changed its meaning. The
old “absurd”, synonymous with ridiculous, nonsensical, ludicrous and
preposterous, becomes, in Camus’s hands, something few would call
absurd. But, part of a great writer’s job description is changing the
meaning of words, and it’s easy to see why the best of us have become
absurd men.

Camus’s absurd man is a thoroughly honorable creature. He respects
reason and wants to understand all things. This is beyond his reach but
he doesn’t claim it’s impossible, only that his own limits make it
*personally* impossible. Perhaps you’ve vainly argued with scientific
illiterates that assert evolution is wrong because *they* cannot see how
it could work. *If I don’t understand it then it cannot be understood*.
Absurd men recognize, but do not generalize, their limitations. Absurd
men also see that in the long run absolutely nothing matters. In a
thousand years all but the greatest of us will be forgotten, in a
million years even the greatest will be forgotten, in a billion years
only precision instruments will detect our remains and in a trillion
years it will be like we never existed. Many red dwarf stars will still
be shining long after every microscopic trace of humanity has
disappeared. This is an inescapable scientific truth. It’s a terrifying
banality that is often ignored or wrapped up in sky fairy nonsense. Yet,
the absurd man faces cosmic futility without flinching or whining.

Instead of being crushed by a vast, difficult to comprehend, cosmos the
absurd man soldiers on. He doesn’t curl up, go on food stamps, or
complain about lurid Koch brother conspiracies. He gives a middle finger
to his fate and then does what he can. *Up yours universe:* this is
Camus’s *revolt* and, in our time, it’s a universal sentiment. This part
of being absurd is easily faked; every brain-dead rapper and air-headed
celebrity sports *up-yours-airs,* but absurd men do not play at revolt!
They do their best to create without delusions and what idiot would
claim celebrities are free of delusions? Many like to think cathedral
masons were honoring god. Even in the Middle Ages this was delusional.
Most were simply earning a living: if a pile of well-shaped rocks
pleased god who knew or cared. Besides, in a geological blink, the same
cathedral stones will weather to mud. Camus is very clear: absurd
creation is self-consciously ephemeral.

Camus started The Myth of Sisyphus with what’s become his most famous
line:

> *There is but one truly serious philosophical problem and that is
> suicide.*

This is one exam question we all face. Cowards run and hide; they turn
the knob to eleven and pop sweet — there’s an app for that —
distractions. The religious create elaborate fantasies and declare war.
Pure rationalists drag in Spinoza’s objects that long to persist in
their being. They don’t commit suicide because that’s not part of their
program. Ironically, only Camus’s absurd answer is remotely satisfying.
In our lingo:  man-up, stop whining, pull your weight, don’t take crap,
expect nothing, use your head and create. Any modern libertarian would
approve.

When casting the prototypical absurd man Camus brilliantly chose
Sisyphus. Sisyphus put death in chains, claiming immortality for men, but
vindictive and jealous gods freed death and condemned Sisyphus to roll a
heavy stone to the top of a hill only to watch it crash down and
roll it up again, and again — forever. This sounds awful but Camus saw
Sisyphus’s fate as a blessing. Life sucks when you’re pushing your rock
up the hill but when it rolls down you get a break. While climbing down
Sisyphus has time to think, to absurdly create, and unlike poor
doomed mortals, Sisyphus gets an eternity of breaks. This is an absurdly
happy fate.
