
[The Mass
Kill as Performance Art](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/10/08/the-mass-kill-as-performance-art/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 08 Oct 2017 20:50:08*

It’s been almost a week since the Las Vegas Mandalay Bay massacre and
the idiot media is still looking for “a motive.” They remind me of
O.J.’s fruitless search for the “real killer.” I don’t watch the
alphabets, except when trapped in airports or, with increasing
annoyance, in my employer’s cafeteria so I’ve missed days of mindless
speculation but my limited TV sampling confirms what’s easily gleaned
from more efficient news sources. The killers “motive” is still unknown
and the authorities are still looking.

In all the blather about the mysterious highly organized and thoughtful
killer, it’s never occurred to anyone (on TV anyway), that the lack of
an apparent motive is exactly what the killer hoped to achieve.

Consider the usual mass media slaughter script. An individual, or group
of individuals, attack and murder a sufficiently[^5487x1] large number of
“innocents.”

If, as is often the case, the attackers are well-known terrorists they
will typically gloat and issue more threats. Public threats trigger the
idiot media’s “analysis.”

If the terrorists are Jihadis the idiot media will downplay the attack
while issuing stern warnings about not jumping to racist conclusions
about an “entire religion.” Then, when forced by competing news
organizations like Fox or right-leaning bloggers, they will join the
fray and condemn the killers while searching for a way to blame Trump.

If the killer is black and the victims are black — well this isn’t news!
Press the ignore button and complain about anything that can be
plausibly blamed on Trump. And, fortunately for the idiot media, that
well will never run dry.

If the killer is white and the victims are *mostly white* (bingo for Las
Vegas), spend a day or two glorifying the murderer. Review his[^5487x2]
typically pathetic and meaningless life while running candlelight
vigils, peace garden plantings, and out-of-tune *Kumbaya-a-thons* in the
background. In more sober moments touch on the “known motive” for the
mayhem. Tut-tut the violence, reassure moronic viewers that violence is
never the answer. Play a few bars of *Imagine* then, when appropriate
mourning turns to anger, use the “known motive” to pivot to what the
idiot media wanted to talk about from the beginning: *gun*
*confiscation.*[^5487x3]

The sooner the idiot media can get “the motive” out of the way the
sooner they can get down to one of their favorite topics. Sadly, the
Vegas killer, being an intelligent and detail oriented psychopath,
anticipated this and left no clear motive forcing the idiot media to
fixate, like a dog licking its ass, on “the motive” for day, after day,
after day. Every day spent discussing “the motive” inflates the killer’s
infamy. He’s already the most famous mass killer in recent history.

Real villainy requires incomprehensible dread and clear motives
eliminate dread. When Jihadis kill it’s no big deal. Their sky fairy
manual exhorts true believers to behead, enslave and tax infidels. It’s
hard to imagine a violence-free way to realize such goals. When black
hating psychopaths open fire in churches the idiot media have ready-made
dread dispelling explanations. If you can quickly explain an atrocity it
almost ceases being atrocious. But, if the horror can never be
explained, if it sticks in your existential craw, it remains a source of
terror forever. This is what the killer was really aiming for.

I view the Las Vegas massacre as deadly performance art. The killer has
more in common with “artists” that drop their pants in public and pee on
crucifixes than cause-driven revolutionaries or garden variety
psychopaths. What exactly motivates public “performance” crucifix
urination? To even ask the question is to mock it. For one deadly night
the Vegas killer staged a performance that upstaged all the other Vegas
shows and unlike another showing of *Cirque du Soleil* or *Menopause the
Musical* his performance will be remembered forever. *The mass kill is a
new art form and the idiot media is its biggest patron*.

[^5487x1]: Sufficiently large is an ever-increasing natural number that is
    now greater than ten.

[^5487x2]: The overwhelming majority of mass killers are male.

[^5487x3]: It’s impossible to have an intelligent debate about guns in the US
    is because neither side is willing to discuss their ultimate goals
    or take responsibility for their positions. Gun controllers secretly
    want the second amendment appealed and all existing guns
    confiscated. Nothing else will satisfy them. They naively think an
    unarmed society will never be abused by the state. Gun holders often
    point out that the second amendment was never about creating a safe
    and secure society but about erecting deadly barriers to government
    tyranny. Unfortunately, they’re unwilling to admit that a heavily
    armed populace will result in large numbers of firearm deaths. US
    gun deaths are an order of magnitude greater than comparable western
    societies: that tree of liberty is more bloodthirsty than expected.
