
[The
New SmugMug](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/08/05/the-new-smugmug/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 06 Aug 2013 04:55:48*

Websites compete in a brutal Darwinian struggle for eyeballs and clicks:
adapt or die is an understatement. Every few years users get “upgraded”
whether they want it or not. Generally things move in a better
direction. Even twenty-something web programmers aren’t completely
stupid but setbacks and complete disasters are not uncommon.

My relationship with [SmugMug](http://www.smugmug.com/) started about
five years ago when my [Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/) account was
suddenly declared “mature” by some faceless administrative ape that
couldn’t tell the difference between innocent nudes and pornography. I
was so incensed I sent Flickr administrators a message they couldn’t
ignore. I painstakingly deleted all my images, mass deletion was oddly
not supported by the [Yahoo’s](http://www.yahoo.com/) that ran the
joint, and dropped my account. How’s that for maturity? I consider it my
sacred duty to punish companies that screw customers. After dumping
Flickr I searched around and found SmugMug.

There were things I liked and didn’t like about SmugMug. SmugMug did a
better job of displaying images than Flickr and you could select your
*own* damn background color. On the downside, SmugMug has more of an
empty art museum vibe than Flickr’s busy social whorehouse milieu. For a
few days I missed complete morons dropping snide asides on my pictures.
The only comments I get on SmugMug come from family members and
energetic strangers that find something they like enough to breach
SmugMug’s spam fortifications. The silence is welcome. This is an art
museum after all.

SmugMug offers a number of account types. I am a “power” user. A power
account falls between basic and pro accounts. This account
differentiation makes sense. SmugMug users fall into three classes.

1.  **Basic:** plain folks that want a no fuss picture website.

2.  **Power:** nondelusional keen photographers.

3.  **Pro:** delusional “serious” photographers.

Only paparazzi, porn, wedding, fashion, sports and National Geographic
photographers are making any money taking pictures these days. If you
don’t fall into any of these classes my guess is that you are spending
more on photography than you are making. SmugMug harbors many
photographers attempting to sell their pictures. I would never buy a
picture nor would I expect to sell one. I see many shots on sale that
aren’t as good as many I’ve made for free. There are billions of cameras
in the wild these days. Photography is not exempt from the law of supply
and demand. When the supply is nearly infinite what do you expect the
price to be? This is why newspapers are laying off staff photographers
and small photography studios have mostly gone out of business. As a
keen amateur photographer this saddens me but as a right-wing
libertarian death beast it warms my dark evil heart that most of the
“photographers” being discarded are rent seeking nitwits playing [Henri
Cartier-Bresson.](http://www.magnumphotos.com/C.aspx?VP3=CMS3\&VF=MAGO31\_10\_VForm\&ERID=24KL53ZMYN)
Still photography is no longer a viable personal business! We’re deep
into another age people. Now that you see where I’m coming from let’s
get on with what’s good and bad about the new SmugMug.

Let’s start with the good stuff:

1.  **Stretchy layouts:** The new website does a better job of
    automatically adapting to a variety of display devices. I’ve browsed
    [my own site](http://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/) on phones,
    tablets, laptops and giant desktop displays. It looks OK on all of
    them and great on tablets and laptops.

2.  **Easy customization and layout tweaking:** It took me all of ten
    minutes to figure out the new layout controls. Programming *easy
    nontrivial* customization is hard. Here the SmugMug programmers have
    brilliantly succeeded. I know enough about JavaScript, CSS and HTML
    to roll my own designs but photography is a hobby; I’d rather spend
    my time taking and refining pictures that writing JavaScript to
    display them.

3.  **Better overall site organization:** The new site organizer is a
    significant improvement on older methods and allowing deeper
    directory paths will be appreciated by many.

4.  **An improved and better integrated mapping facility:** Displaying
    geotagged images on old SmugMug was somewhat jarring. The control
    was clunky and it didn’t match your site design. The new control
    adapts to your layout and “circle” area browsing is slick and
    intuitive.

Now for the dark side:

1.  **Website migration has hiccups:** My site has over two thousands
    images. I didn’t expect the migration to the new layout to be
    without problems and it wasn’t. For me the biggest problem was the
    handling of keywords. The new site does not properly display keyword
    strings if the “;” delimiter is used. I have thousands of pictures
    with “keywords” like:

            5x5;capillary;glass;microscope;polywater;ultra;

    The “;” character delimits separate words. It should be displayed
    like:

            5x5 | capillary | glass | microscope | polywater | ultra

    When you click on the “;” string it is interpreted as a “find all
    images with all these keywords” request which is usually the very
    image you are browsing. This is mostly a display problem. The
    individual keywords were properly parsed and loaded.

2.  **Custom API applications break:** I use a custom application I
    wrote to synchronize my SmugMug online galleries with my offline
    [ThumbsPlus](http://www.cerious.com/) databases. This application
    issues SmugMug REST API calls to collect and update image metadata.
    When I migrated I expected this application to stop working and it
    did. It looks like I need to authenticate my application with the
    new SmugMug site. There are no *easily found instructions* on how to
    do this. I hope this is just an oversight and that power users can
    still run custom API applications.

3.  **The new map control is limited to one hundred images:** The slick
    circle browser map control will only display one hundred images and
    there is no easy way to set it to map pictures in a particular
    gallery. The old clunky control allowed two hundred pictures and it
    could display arbitrary galleries.

I could go on but I program for a living. I know users always whine
about change and seldom express gratitude for all the hard work the code
monkeys of the world do to keep the lights on. Overall the new SmugMug
is better than the old. There are problems but for a first production
cut this is fine work. It certainly merits one prestigious Analyze the
Data not the Drivel *attaboy* award. See the following to print your
award.
