
[The Pointless Existence of Ambrose Oliver Cuddlepomp](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/02/19/the-pointless-existence-of-ambrose-oliver-cuddlepomp/) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 19 Feb 2024 23:04:06*

We find Ambrose Oliver Cuddlepomp at work, or at least what he calls
work. It's not work in the sense of exerting energies for earnings; it's
more like a deliberate marking of time: a way to distinguish one hour
and day from another. Ambrose Oliver Cuddlepomp, or "Cuddie" to use the
demeaning nickname, has never enjoyed work despite being relatively
conscientious when employed. If Cuddlepomp had ever mastered sustained
attention, there's no telling what he might have done. But, lucky for
this liquid orb, Cuddlepomp suffers from that most crippling and banal
of human failings: laziness. So, instead of an august and imposing
Cuddlepomp, we observe a shriveled, opinion-laden old man going about
his final days with few regrets.

Cuddlepomp's lack of regrets sometimes astonishes him. He has
comprehensively failed to achieve any of his imagined goals of youth.
Yet this doesn't bother him. Cuddlepomp always saw through himself. Even
when imagining those goals, he knew that if achieved, they would not
have changed his sense of things or himself. Lack of ambition comes in
many forms. In Cuddlepomp's case, he is blessed with a curious and
wonderful lack of envy; he genuinely enjoys the successes of others. Oh,
he would like the *ease* of the wealthy and famous, but he knows it
wouldn't alter his feelings. First class is only *more comfortable* than
coach; it has little impact on one's philosophy. Young Cuddlepomp often
wondered why "envy" was allowed in the seven-deadly-sins club. Sane gods
would surely rank murder a greater sin than envy, yet a rich, long
literature says otherwise. Envy is the nucleus on which other sins
condense. Take it away, and you get Cuddlepomp's benign lethargy. Yes,
Cuddlepomp has read of Achilles' rage but has never felt it. Even during
his divorce, he still wished others well.

Cuddlepomp's lack of envy and forgiving nature do not imply he is
without dreams. Cuddlepomp is a walking dream. Sometimes, he is a
literal walking dream. When randomly *Wuhan Walking*, a habit recently
acquired during the last end of the world, he sometimes chides himself
for overusing that appalling word "literally" while literally dreaming
and walking. It's a strange habit. Cuddlepomp has one superb talent:
daydreaming. The childish Cuddlepomp lived in the basement of his
parents' house. He had a solitary bedroom with blue-painted concrete
walls and a gray-shag wall-to-wall carpet. He daydreamed on that shag
rug by walking in circles while shaking his fingers and tongue drumming.
He walked for so long that he packed down the shag leaving a
hard-to-hide dream circle in the rug. Cuddlepomp's father was annoyed by
his shag dream circles, but he was a good father and swallowed his
annoyance. Cuddlepomp never stopped dreaming. As he aged, he stopped
walking in circles and stared into a blank wall. He needed a blank wall
to project the epics in his head. With greater age, Cuddlepomp abandoned
wall dreaming and slowly evolved perambulatory musing. Now, Cuddlepomp
can be found on his *Wuhan Walks*, planning his various projects and
still dreaming of worlds that will never be. Cuddlepomp has never been
embarrassed by his time and life-wasting daydreaming. He rightly regards
his habit as less lethal than fentanyl and an ace he can play when
thrown into solitary. Locking Cuddlepomp up, even keeping him in the
dark, would only facilitate his dreaming. Oddly, Cuddlepomp's many
otherworldly dreams keep him *in this world*. The day Cuddlepomp stops
dreaming will be the day his pointless existence ends.

Yes, Cuddlepomp leads a pointless existence, but he doesn't take it
personally. As far as his limited intellect can ascertain, the entire
universe is pointless: just abstractions, currently quantum fields and
general relativity, awaiting heat death, the big rip, or collapse back
into the sweet singularity from which it spewed. Our universe may be
God-free, but we'll still get a Ragnar√∂k: oblivion without volition or
guilt. Perfectly pointless! Cuddlepomp has always known this. Even the
grade school Cuddlepomp knew this; it's the main reason he rejected all
religious and spirit-infested beliefs. It's why he can never repent and
beg nonexistent gods to forgive him and not cast him into that
nonexistent lake of fire. Cuddlepomp, always seeing through himself,
could never sincerely believe, and he would not respect deities dumb
enough to fall for his insincerity. Cuddlepomp has supreme being
standards.

Cuddlepomp's human standards are mixed. He admires the demonstrably
superior but doesn't think much of garden-variety naked apes. He likes
to think he loathes them, but genuine loathing is work, and Cuddlepomp
has never liked work. Still, he's often annoyed by the incredible
ignorance and credulity he observes walking about. Years ago, he read
about a pollster asking newly minted Harvard graduates why there are 365
days in a year. It seems many did not know that's approximately how long
it takes the Earth to go around the Sun. How can you get out of grade
school without knowing this? Just last week, he marveled at the answers
a YouTuber recorded when asking random street people how many stars are
in the Milky Way. Many didn't know the Milky Way is our galaxy, and only
one knew the star count was many billions. Again, how can you breathe
and not know this? This is why Cuddlepomp limits his exposure to NPR, or
whining Karen Radio as he calls it, and stays off X (formerly Twitter),
Facebook, Instagram, Reddit, and other social media sites. He can only
absorb limited doses of idiocy before getting aggressively dismissive
and sarcastic. In-person, Cuddlepomp is a polite old man who earnestly
enjoys conversations with strangers, but online, he's a monster.

Cuddlepomp's politics are fluid. He mostly wants the political class
dead but lacks the energy and discipline to kill them. He awakes every
morning, hoping some asshole somewhere has expired. Observing the demise
of political creatures is one of Cuddlepomp's guilty pleasures. You may
wonder how this meshes with Cuddlepomp's forgiving nature. Is it not
hypocritical to enjoy the deaths of the wanting while claiming a
forgiving nature? Many would say yes, but Cuddlepomp never claimed he
forgives unconditionally. You must repent in Cuddlepomp's eyes. Do so,
and he may forgive. Now, we are repeatedly told not to judge lest we be
judged. Only nonexistent gods may judge; silly mortals must abstain.
Cuddlepomp called bullshit on this doctrine about the same time he
memorized his multiplication tables. The old Cuddlepomp knows humans are
social animals and social animals are highly evolved judgment machines.
We spend our lives constantly monitoring and updating our view of
others. We never stop; it works subconsciously, and it's been critical
to our survival. So, stop the "don't be judgmental hypocrisy."
Cuddlepomp can put up with any reasoned or imaginative argument, but the
one thing Cuddlepomp demands of himself and others is an absolute
dedication to detecting and correcting errors. If you cannot admit
mistakes, Cuddlepomp will truly loathe you; for this, he will put in the
effort.

Strangers see Cuddlepomp as a conventional eccentric: a "mostly
harmless," in Douglas Adam's immortal words, old man who has somehow
retained his teeth. But on the inside, Cuddlepomp has questions. If the
storms raging in Cuddlepomp afflict others, this planet is strange.
Consider gender. Cuddlepomp was born in an age of males, females, and
freaks. In the later decades of Cuddlepomp's long, pointless existence,
the naked apes around him started obsessing about gender. Many made
idiotic claims about biological sex that infuriated the scientifically
literate Cuddlepomp. Human males have XY chromosomes; human females have
XX chromosomes; other rare options like XYY are developmental
abnormalities. On this, like Milky Way star counts, the science is
settled. Cuddlepomp will allow the notion that "gender" is more general
and fluid than biological sex. Languages have male and feminine forms,
so linguistic gender is unlike biological sex. A male may claim he is a
female, but until technology advances to the point of chromosome
substitution, he remains a biological male. That many hysterically deny
this while vociferously accusing their critics of being bigoted
ignoramuses strikes Cuddlepomp as pathological windmill tilting. This is
obdurate idiocy. Only sincere religious and political beliefs are more
so. Cuddlepomp remains committed to the conventional view; you need good
reasons to change your mind, and none are on offer.

Biological sex is rigorously chromosome-based, but sexual attraction is
not. Cuddlepomp learned this later than most. He was a university
student on a long bus ride from northern Alberta to Southwestern Montana
when he was abruptly accosted in a bus restroom by a prowling
homosexual. At first, Cuddlepomp thought he was being mugged and was
relieved when the truth dawned. The student Cuddlepomp gathered enough
composure to warn off the interloper, who, to his credit, politely
disengaged and fled the restroom. Until that moment, Cuddlepomp had
never considered non-heterosexual arrangements. As Cuddlepomp analyzed
the idea, he found it interesting and sometimes arousing, but Cuddlepomp
remained a dedicated heterosexual. He married twice, had children, and
never indulged in any affairs, straight or gay. Cuddlepomp's sexuality
is boring; it will never make the news. Cuddlepomp has few regrets, and
his sexuality is not on the list.

While Cuddlepomp has few regrets, we must note that "few" is not zero.
Cuddlepomp has a loved wife and children. When he is gone, there will be
nothing more he can do for them. The adolescent Cuddlepomp sneered at
wills, but the old Cuddlepomp admits their utility. His wife will
inherit a pittance, and his children will, in the case of her death, be
next in line for the remaining crumbs. Whatever comes their way will
help, but it won't resolve their struggles. Only they can do that. We
can only help each other; we cannot fix anyone but ourselves.

Cuddlepomp's major regret is a sad realization that he will never fully
understand anything. An old philosophical belief (it can be nothing
else) holds that if you fully understand even the tiniest bit of the
universe, you will understand it all. How many questions can you ask
about a stone --- its composition, its history, where its elements came
from, how it took its shape, whether it's been thought about by others,
its long-term fate, and so forth? Most of these queries will never be
answered, but a complete answer to any would exceed our sciences.
Cuddlepomp will not live to see these queries resolved, and he suspects
that complete answers will be utterly beyond his limited powers anyway.
Cuddlepomp has always known this. The young Cuddlepomp would sometimes
explode awake with a sudden acute awareness that he would die, vanish,
and be no more. It was terrifying. Cuddlepomp calls these awakenings
*mortal flashes*. Mortal flashes decline with age. The old Cuddlepomp,
far closer to death than the young, seldom has them. It's not death that
is the problem. Being dead, even for an eternity, will be no different
than not being born. Did all those billions of years from the Big Bang
bother you? You cannot imagine a universe without yourself because there
you are, in the universe, imagining it. Death is mindless,
point-of-view-less, alien to our consciousness, and Cuddlepomp suspects
alien to all consciousnesses. We're born ignorant, learn enough to
forage and fornicate, and then, like the animals we are, we die,
removing our unique ignorance forever. It's bleak but not personal; *the
universe cannot be concerned with its contents.*
