
[There will never be a
Literature of Reality](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/08/31/there-will-never-be-a-literature-of-reality/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 31 Aug 2014 20:20:13*

The first job of the myth maker is to shrink the universe. The shrinkage
occurs along all dimensions: time, space and mind. You see this
everywhere. Immortal vampires and wizards are, at most, a few
thousand years old: younger than many *real* trees. Grand science
fiction star empires seldom span a single galaxy in a universe of
hundreds of billions. Time travelers never set their machines to zero or
infinity; they have no interest in creation or ultimate ends. The
demigods, super AI’s, and other transcendent beings
brood unproductively, without original ideas, for millennia. Remember
when Elrond reminisced about “being there” when Sauron was struck down
three thousand Middle Earth years ago. In all that time the great, wise,
and nearly immortal, elves of Middle Earth did not move beyond simple
swords. How quickly the battle for Gondor would have gone with a few
dozen [Abrams
tanks](http://www.marines.com/operating-forces/equipment/vehicles/m1a1-abrams-tank)
and a couple squadrons of
[Warthogs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairchild_Republic_A-10_Thunderbolt_II).

It’s hard to fault human authors for shrinking the universe. The real
universe, the utterly vast and ancient universe slowly discovered by
modern science, is beyond all human scales. Imagine a book that devoted
one word to every star in the observable universe. The number of stars
in the observable universe is a unit that has a name. It’s called a
*Sagan* in honor of Carl Sagan. The Sagan is currently estimated to be
around 7 x 10^22^.  Assuming there are one thousand words per page our
book would have 7 x 10^19^ pages.

If we read nonstop at a rate of one hundred pages per hour it would take
about 80 billion years, or six times the estimated age of the universe,
to read this book. Yet, vast as this book is, it leaves out pretty much
everything. There’s no mention of the Earth or other planets: so many
pages and not even a Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy’s “[mostly
harmless.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mostly_Harmless)” Reality
overwhelms imagination. The magic of Harry Potter is piffle compared to
cosmic inflation.
[Haldane](http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/J._B._S._Haldane) was right. The
universe is probably queerer than we can imagine and certainly deeper
than we can grasp. Our meager fictions must float in serene little
bubbles lest they overrun our short impatient lives. *There will never
be a literature of reality.*
