[The Real Problem with Enterprise
Software](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/06/11/the-real-problem-with-enterprise-software/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 11 Jun 2010 14:36:00*

Only the gifted analytic minds of IT management and know it all
programmers have the intelligence work ethic and superb taste required
to select enterprise software. Speaking as an ITite, (one who works in
IT), I can report that we are so gifted, so far-seeing, so utterly and
totally awesome in our views that only ignorant
*[tuggles](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=tuggles)*,
(non technical types), would dare challenge our recommendations. Even
better, the same plodding sleep deprived determination that we use to
code computers into submission can be applied to human adversaries. We
can wear you down with one technical objection after another until you
finally give in and make the correct selection.

And what is the correct selection? ITites assert that the *correct
solution is the one that always puts them in absolute control* of
clueless tuggles that seem determined to have their own way *when we
know their way is wrong wrong and wrong!* To paraphrase the [leading
reptilian
philosopher](http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/19/business/media/19adco.html)
of our age: **control is key when talking about IT.**

Because control is key enterprise software must extend and consolidate
ITite empires or it will be rejected. Rejections will take the form of
complaints about, cost, performance, scalability, standards compliance,
or my current favorite *uncloudable:* software that cannot run in [the
cloud](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud\_computing). Some of these
arguments may have merits but usually the selection boils down to human
prejudice and personal comfort zones.

There is one poisonous consequence of this madness that really pisses me
off. To kowtow to IT control freaks enterprise software vendors have
made heroic efforts to prevent people from using and mastering their
software. We are used to downloading software and giving it a try. I
challenge you to try this with
[Cognos/IBM](http://www-01.ibm.com/software/data/cognos/), [Microsoft
BI](http://www.microsoft.com/bi/),
[Oracle/Hyperion](http://www.oracle.com/hyperion/index.html) or, the
worst of the lot, [SAP](http://www.sap.com/index.epx) software. Not only
will you not be able to download useful free trial versions but in many
cases you won’t even be able to get your hands on manuals! How lovely: a
complex suite of software that you have to pay to read about!

Enterprise software vendors are rightly horrified by the prospect of
their wares turning into commodities. A commodity, in [business
speak](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business\_speak), is something that
you cannot mark way the fuck up! Of course all this stuff is grossly
overpriced with inane gouging support contracts piled on. Do not despair
enterprise software vendors are piling wood on their own funeral pyres.
They are creating perfect conditions for low-cost, or open source
providers, to knock them off and party on their graves.

To help set the cremation fires ablaze I abide by following sacred
consulting principle. ***Don’t waste your time on systems that you
cannot take with you.*** This is the real problem with enterprise
software; you cannot take it anywhere!
