[The 20 seconds that ruined
Inception](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/07/28/the-20-seconds-that-ruined-inception/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 28 Jul 2010 18:24:00*

Last week I saw [Inception](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/inception/)
with my daughter. I was seriously considering giving this flick a miss
after reading [Michelle
Malkin’s](http://michellemalkin.com/2010/07/17/if-you-miss-just-one-movie-this-year-make-it-inception/)
rant about its empty-headed actors. Nothing ruins a movie faster than an
actor going off-script! Actors are given scripts ***written by others***
for very good reasons. Most of them have [stunted childlike
minds](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/jim-carrey/the-judgment-on-vaccines\_b\_189777.html)
that rarely emit ideas worth considering. I have no patience for such
nonsense and I certainly won’t pay for it. Lucky for Inception its
Cineplex competitors were defining a new standard of [airbending
suckitude](http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/last\_airbender/) — move over
[Plan 9](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan\_9\_from\_Outer\_Space)
there’s a new fetid [pant
load](http://www.doubletongued.org/index.php/dictionary/pant\_load/) in
town.

To my relief the juvenile politics of Inception’s actors did not
manifest in the movie. Inception is a fine film but it threw away its
*slim* chance at greatness in the last twenty seconds. At this point I
must issue an all points spoiler alert. **Do not read beyond this
paragraph if you want to preserve your faint chance of being
surprised.**

Inception is all about recursive nature of reality and dreams. What is a
dream and what is reality? How does dream time relate to real-time? Does
such a question even make sense? Are we in a dream? What happens if we
dream in a dream? The movie tackles these themes with technical gusto.
The special effects are *so special* you forget about being impressed
and just enjoy the story. On this account Inception succeeds were
[Avatar](http://www.avatarmovie.com/) sounded some sour notes. You
cannot fault this movie on technical grounds. Nor can you fault it on
cheesy subject matter. How many Hollywood blockbusters deal with the
nature of reality?

To avoid getting lost in dreams the Inception dreamers carried a
personal test token. The test token is a small object that *behaves one
way in dream worlds and another way in reality.* And, *this is crucial
to Inception’s plot*, only one dreamer should know the token’s trick.
[DiCaprio’s](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonardo\_DiCaprio) character
used the spinning top shown above. As some readers have pointed out the
spinning top is DiCaprio’s wife’s token but *he knows* that in dreams
the top never stops spinning while in the real world it tips over. By
spinning the top he can distinguish dreams from reality.

In the last twenty seconds of Inception DiCaprio’s character returns
home and starts the top spinning on a table. Throughout the film he has
been trying to catch glimpses of his children’s faces. In his dreams
their faces are always turned away. Finally, they turn their heads and
he sees their faces. Then the camera cuts to the spinning token. It’s
still spinning but it’s wobbling and starting to fall.

The film ends before the token falls. I’m guessing the director just
couldn’t stomach the *focus group happy ending* and spared us the
indignity of watching the top fall. Despite the residual uncertainty,
*maybe it doesn’t fall and this isn’t reality but another dream*, the
implication is clear enough we are safe and sound and back in the real
world. A better ending would have been no top wobbling and no child
faces. Then everything would have been marvelously ambiguous and
unclear. **Never pander to the audience art is to delicate for that!**
