
[The Singularity is
Not Near Enough](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/03/05/the-singularity-is-not-near-enough/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 05 Mar 2014 17:52:19*

Here’s a little Google project. Search for life extension technologies
and start [reading
comments](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2523086/Could-humans-live-500-years-old-Scientists-believe-genetic-tweaks-significantly-extend-lifespan.html)
about what people think about living five hundred or a thousand years?
Some are completely in favor of the idea but you’ll find legions of
naysayers that are deeply disturbed that the “natural order” of things
will soon radically change. Objections run the entire predictable gamut.
The religious go on about how this is not part of God’s plan. *How would
they know?* Marxists and bitter lefties complain that only the rich will
be able to afford life extension. It never occurs to them that such
technologies might be cheap. How many of you thought you would be
carrying inexpensive 64 bit super computers in your pockets twenty years
ago? Environmentalists whine about how this will increase one’s lifetime
Carbon footprint — seriously — and start mumbling about abuses to Gaia.
Paranoid and suspicious types boldly assert that “the government” will
use access to life extension to “control us” and pollute our [pure
bodily fluids](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N1KvgtEnABY).  It seems
more people want to live short ordinary lives than long extraordinary
ones.

Personally I don’t have a problem with life extension.  I’m in the Woody
Allen camp. [“I don’t want to achieve immortality through my work; I
want to achieve immortality through not dying.
”](http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/1066-i-don-t-want-to-achieve-immortality-through-my-work-i)
Not dying, *ever*, is a mighty big order. If you place any credence on
current Big Bang cosmologies it looks like the entire universe is
mortal. [In a mere 10^100^
years](http://www.futuretimeline.net/beyond.htm#3000000000) the universe
might be completely dark with a temperature that is physically
indistinguishable from absolute zero. All the stars, galaxies, black
holes and unstable elementary particles will have long since decayed.
You might find a free electron every few million light years or so *if
you’re lucky*. Such a universe is beyond dead as far as sentient beings
are concerned. Religious end-times are for pussyfied wimps, metrosexual
girly-men and fat feminists. Plausible universal end states are vastly
more terrifying that any Last Judgment or Ragnarök. I don’t expect life
extension to produce lifetimes of 10^100^ years; I would be happy if we
eke out a few millennia. There are thousands of trees, deep-sea corals,
and freaking
[sponges](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_longest-living_organisms)
that are many thousands of years old? If a sponge can hack a thousand
years I really don’t think I’ll have a problem.

My one serious objection to human life extension is simple. Most of us
are dumber than fence posts and even the intelligent have brains
infested with patently stupid ideas that deserve immediate and total
deletion. Most of us aren’t worth preserving until next week let alone
the year 3000. I don’t exempt myself from this harsh judgment. I’ve
always assumed that if I can understand something it’s inherently
trivial; that if I can do something it’s no big deal; that if I can hack
it cannot really hurt. Yet I am constantly amazed at how many cannot
meet my pitifully low standards. Do you really want to be surrounded by
your grunting, ignorant naked ape neighbors for a thousand years?  It’s
hard to make a more cogent argument for mortality. I know what you’re
thinking. “That’s not fair; people learn and change.” Oh, if it were
only so. I know people who have never changed their minds about
anything. They are the true walking dead; after the mind goes the body
is just pus and who wants to extend the life of pus?

Greatly extending the lives of horribly flawed and limited people will
only perpetuate our screwed up world. Minds do not change, they die. If
Caesar was still up and about we would probably still be throwing people
to the lions, worshipping Greco-Roman sky fairies and marching off to
war every spring. We have to get a lot smarter to *use* thousand-year
lifetimes. Fortunately the singularity is coming.

Ray Kurzweil has absorbed lots of abuse. His book, [The Singularity is
Near](http://www.amazon.com/The-Singularity-Is-Near-Transcend/dp/0143037889),
has been mocked as rapture for nerds. My own view is that his thesis is
sound but his timeline is whacked. I don’t think the singularity, the
emergence of superior trans-human intelligence, will happen in my
lifetime. I doubt it will happen in the 21^st^ century but it’s almost
inevitable in the 22^nd^ and 23^rd^. We are entering an end-time of
sorts. Standard *Homo sapiens* will, in a few short centuries, be
extinct.[^4558a] We will either be eliminated by trans-humans as a dangerous
pest species[^4558b] or we will voluntarily become trans-human ourselves. I
agree with Kurzweil that we cannot predict how truly superior beings
will live but I’m willing to bet my Bitcoin stash that they will outlive
sponges! The singularity is not near enough.

[^4558a]: This is why I don’t worry about Global Warming.

[^4558b]: They may keep a few of us around like we keep grizzlies in
    national parks.
