 
[The Wahweap Wow](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/05/22/the-wahweap-wow/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 22 May 2012 21:27:58*

Last weekend I was in Page Arizona to visit my parents and catch the May
20^th^ 2012 annular solar eclipse. Page is a little town that owes its
existence to the construction of the Glen Canyon dam in the early
1960’s. The reservoir behind the dam, Lake Powell, has appeared in so
many movies that [it should collect
royalties](https://www.lakepowellrealty.net/lake-powell-movies/).
Charlton Heston crashed his spaceship here in the first and [only good
Planet of the Apes
movie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planet\_of\_the\_Apes\_(1968\_film)).
John Travolta nuked the place in [Broken
Arrow](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0115759/). Even Jesus Christ used
Lake Powell as a Dead Sea ringer in [The Greatest Story Ever
Told](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0059245/).

Page, the dam and Lake Powell did not disappoint. I had a great time
toodling around [shooting
pictures](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/USA-and-Canada/Arizona-Toodling-1/7475075_MrjqMc).
I only had one day which was partly devoted to the eclipse but I saw
enough to give Glen Canyon an unqualified thumbs up. If you’re into
rocks, desert and water this place is [bucket
list](https://bucketlist.org/) material. Like MacArthur I will return.

While pleased with Glen Canyon I was surprised by the large number of
people who turned out for the annular eclipse. The US park service in
conjunction with local amateur astronomers set up viewing grounds on
Wahweap Overlook and ran full size shuttle buses from the nearby Carl
Hayden dam visitor center. At least four busloads of eclipse fans were
carried to the overlook where they joined more amateur astronomers and
serious eclipse photographers that had set up dozens of telescopes and
cameras for the big show. There must have been at least four hundred
people on Wahweap Overlook and Wahweap was only one of many sites where
people set up to watch the eclipse. It’s gratifying to see that when a
*real star* puts on a show the audience is huge.

Before the eclipse started, and during the early phases when the Moon
was creeping on the Sun’s disk, I walked around looking through
telescopes. Two scopes stood out. One expensive large aperture [Hydrogen
Alpha](https://www.astronomyknowhow.com/hydrogen-alpha.htm) scope served
up gorgeous high-resolution views of the Sun. In Hydrogen Alpha light
solar prominences , filaments and photosphere mottles are clearly
visible. The big Hydrogen Alpha scope put on a good show but bang for
the buck went to a 15 dollar light funnel that a 14-year-old made by
hand and attached to a small refractor. His makeshift funnel projected
the brightest and clearest white light image of the Sun. I told him his
projection was the best; he was happy to hear it.

As the eclipse approached the annular phase I set up my camera. I didn’t
have the right filter, only a 4D neutral density, but I thought I’d give
it a try. When the light ring formed I fired off a few shots. The filter
didn’t cut enough light so I immediately gave up and went to plan B.
Plan B consisted of covering the lens of my iPhone with eclipse shades
and [Phd’ing
it](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2011/12/04/revenge-of-the-phd-camera/).
I took a few frames and managed to catch the ring. It was a minor
triumph of [iPhoneography](https://www.iphoneography.com/). After that I
just gawked through my eclipse shades while the Sun and Moon wowed the
masses with their dance. The crowd burst into applause when the ring
broke but, sadly, the performers declined an encore.

As I have already said, annulars are not in the same awe-inspiring class
as totals but this annular, falling where it did, was special. From the
overlook you could see the lake, the dam, towering red rock formations
and of course the sky. The perfect ring of light was just the icing on
the cake of a Wahweap wow!
