[The Zero Bullshit Sport Olympics](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2021/06/25/the-zero-bullshit-sport-olympics/) {#the-zero-bullshit-sport-olympics .unnumbered}
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 25 Jun 2021 18:16:48*

We can thank the perpetually aggrieved and ever-complaining "transgender
community" for the *Zero Bullshit Sport Olympics*. The ridiculous
spectacle of huge male weightlifters, that conveniently identified and
competed as women, crushing smaller and weaker female competitors on
live global TV forced many to ask forbidden questions.

"Why are Olympic sports sexually segregated?"

"Does it really matter what the sex of a sprinter is?"

"Isn't the first *human being*, male or female, to cross the finish line
the winner? That's how it works for horses; why not humans?"

Once a forbidden question is widely asked and answers are earnestly
sought, unpredictable outcomes may ensue. The *Zero Bullshit Sport
Olympics* was such an outcome. After the intolerable absurdity of
sexually segregated sports could no longer be countenanced it dawned on
many that the *old* Olympics was chock full of bullshit sports in dire
need of elimination.

Bullshit sports were easy to identify. Any sport that depended on panels
of "judges" to determine winners was clearly bullshit. Figure skating,
flashy but bullshit, floor gymnastics, spectacular but bullshit,
synchronized swimming, waterlogged bullshit, rhythmic gymnastics,
bullshit's bullshit; any sport that could not be objectively counted,
timed, weighed, or precisely measured in SI units was deemed bullshit
and purged from the Olympic roster. So began the *Zero Bullshit Sport
Olympics*.

Purging bullshit sports and sexually desegregating the remaining
provided a much need *games enema*, but it didn't completely fix the
Olympics, *only abolition could do that*! Yes, the *Zero Bullshit Sport
Olympics* featured a *reduced roster,* but many ludicrous oddities
survived: Motocross, WTF survived, bobsled, applied ice friction
physics, survived, javelin, so relevant to the 21^st^ century, survived,
velodrome cycling, gay roller derby, survived. And overall, the games
remained a vast unnecessary, obscenely overpriced, public-funded, drug
saturated real estate orgy overseen by that corrupt cabal of lecherous
open-sored syphilitic whores known as the IOC (International Olympic
Committee).

The *Zero Bullshit Sport Olympics*, while not perfect, did put an end to
whining about judges and gender. In particular, it fixed the
"transgender travesty." After sexual desegregation, no advantage could
be gleaned by identifying and competing as the opposite sex. A
transwoman weightlifter still faced male competitors. Oddly, in the
sexually desegregated era, the number of trans-athletes dropped to
almost zero. It's like trans-athletes had never been entirely sincere!

The *Zero Bullshit Sport Olympics* also highlighted many *blatant
realities* that the global garbage media had long suppressed. For
example, no female sprinter has ever qualified for the 100-meter dash.
Male runners are simply too fast. Similarly, no female weightlifter has
ever competed in the super heavyweight class. Women have fared equally
poorly in the high, long, and triple jumps. Nor have any ever thrown a
winning hammer, shot put, or javelin. The sexually desegregated Olympics
hasn't been a complete rout for women. Female fencers have held their
own. Ultra-marathon winners are often women. Mixed-sex bobsled teams,
huge male pushers, and small women drivers dominate that sport. Female
sharpshooters hit their targets, as well as men, and of course, female
riders on female horses, win as often as their male counterparts.

Looking back, the *Zero Bullshit Sport Olympics* stripped away many *au
courant* social delusions and returned the spotlight to simple
unfettered and unqualified human excellence. Instead of mocking Olympic
ideals, like the old Olympic obscenity, it sometimes upheld them!
