 
[This Herodotus is a Hoot!](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/07/11/this-herodotus-is-a-hoot/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 11 Jul 2010 15:00:09*

Yesterday, while driving to the mall with my wife, I launched into a
lecture on why the
[iPad](https://news.cnet.com/8301-17852\_3-20004899-71.html) and it’s
[Kindle’ly](https://www.amazon.com/Kindle-Wireless-Reading-Display-Globally/dp/B0015T963C)
kindred will never replace books. As you are reading this on a 21st
century blog you can infer that I am not a technophobic Luddite. Devices
like the Kindle are another way to read and for many purposes,
(textbooks anyone), such gadgets will be better than traditional books.
But, *and this is one big butt-ugly but*, when it comes to the book as a
*objet d’art* the iPad is to a book like a bumper sticker is to the
[Sistine
Chapel.](https://www.wga.hu/frames-e.html?/html/m/michelan/3sistina/)

If you don’t see this I feel sorry for you; you have never read a *real*
book. It’s not your fault, publishing, like everything in this sad sorry
world, is subject to [Sturgeon’s
Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sturgeon's\_Law): “Ninety percent of
everything is crap!” Most of the books you find on the shelves of
big-box book stores are essentially paper turds — the more current the
topic, the more *Oprah’ey* the content, the greater the likelihood of
[turdhood.](https://www.amazon.com/Dreams-My-Father-Story-Inheritance/dp/1400082773)
Paper turds can be great books. In fact there is a thriving niche
industry that specializes in reissuing great classics as low-cost paper
turds. Here *the medium is definitely not the message.*

Most of the time we are drowning in a sea of paper turds but every now
and then a book appears that literally restores your faith in mankind:
*[The Landmark
Herodotus](https://www.amazon.com/Landmark-Herodotus-Histories/dp/0375421092)*
is such a book. The instant I opened the cover I knew I was dealing with
something special. Book design is a subtle art, when executed at the
highest level on the best source material it can produce jaw-dropping
results. The design of The Landmark Herodotus is simply the best
annotation scheme I have ever seen. Somehow the editors have managed to
include thousands of marginal notes, footnotes and elegant place maps
that simultaneously elucidate the original *and stay out-of-the-way.* I
was completely taken by the end of the front matter.

My reactions are hardly unique. [Panagiotis
Polichronakis](https://www.openlettersmonthly.com/december-landfall/)
wrote in his [we are not
worthy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FucbvoFFy0) review:

> *It’s a rude thing, the march of history. It disabuses us, and we must
> gracefully acquiesce. Every single aspect of The Landmark Herodotus –
> most certainly including the translation at the heart of it – is
> superior to anything else that’s ever been produced on behalf of the
> author.*

So this is not only a good translation — it’s the best ever! For a book
that has been in circulation for over 2,400 years that’s a pretty
extravagant claim but it’s probably true.

Last night I was sucked into Herodotus and managed to pull myself away
at 3:00 am after reading the story of Cyrus the Great. Cyrus’s story
offers up a tasty morsel. Astyages, Cyrus’s grandfather, dreamed of a
vine growing from his daughter’s genitals that grew to cover all of
Asia. Now that’s a bush! Alarmed Astyages told his Magi about his dream
and they told him that he would be deposed by a grandchild: like duh!
Being the kingly king he was Astyages resolved to off any of his
daughter’s offspring. In time Mandane, Astyages daughter, bore a son
named Cyrus. Astyages charged his right hand man Harpagos with the task
of terminating Cyrus. Harpagos wanted to obey his king but he [wussed
out](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/wuss\_out) when he saw Cyrus’s cute
little innocent baby eyes. He couldn’t kill Cyrus so he did what all
government bureaucrats do when faced with a tough choice: he delegated.
Harpagos gave Cyrus to the herdsman Mitradates and told him to expose
the child and bring back the body so he could be sure the kid was kaput.
Mitradates knew he was
[Median](https://www.iranchamber.com/history/median/median.php) toast if
he didn’t obey. He took Cyrus home to his pregnant wife and told her we
are so screwed if we don’t kill Cyrus. Fortunately for Mitradates, his
wife and Cyrus she had given birth while Mitradates was away.
Unfortunately, *for her baby*, it was a stillborn. Mitradates’s wife
suggested swapping her stillborn with baby Cyrus and raising Cyrus as
their own son. In this way Cyrus survived and grew up as the son of
herdsman.

Despite this clever ruse Astyages eventually learned the truth about
Cyrus and how his trusted man Harpagos had disobeyed him. But Astyages
was cool about being betrayed. He forgave Harpagos and remarked that
Cyrus, *being alive and all,* would need some playmates. Astyages then
told Harpagos why don’t you go home and tell your own boy to come over
and keep Cyrus company. He also invited Harpagos to diner. When
Harpagos’s son arrived Astyages had him killed, chopped up and boiled.
When Harpagos arrived for diner Astyages served him chunks of his own
son. Harpagos gulped his meat down. Astyages asked Harpagos if the meat
was to his liking and added that if wanted more just look in this pot.
Harpagos looked in the pot and saw the boiled head, hands and feet of
his son.

Stop me if you have heard this family diner story before. Shakespeare
severed up a version in [Titus
Andronicus](https://shakespeare.mit.edu/titus/full.html), South Park took
a stab at it with [Scott Tenorman Must
Die](https://www.southparkstudios.com/guide/501) and [Jeffery
Dahmer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeffrey\_Dahmer) seems to have
confused this story with a recipe but, no matter how you like your
history served, *The Landmark Herodotus is a magnificent hooting feast
of a book.*
