
[Tiny Universe Syndrome](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2024/05/28/tiny-universe-syndrome/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 28 May 2024 20:56:11*

I sat through Jennifer Lopez's new Netflix movie *Atlas* the other
night. *Atlas* is what I call generic low-IQ science fiction. It sports
many sci-fi elements: evil AIs, good AIs, warm heroines (Jennifer is way
too old to be considered *hot*), robots, spaceships, space marines,
explosions, and ridiculous apocalyptic plot lines. *Atlas* has been
[thoroughly roasted
online](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/atlas_2024). Many are calling
it a [woke
disaster](https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/news/you-re-about-to-get-a-sale-on-nvidia-jim-cramer-shares-insight-on-buying-during-pullbacks/ar-BB1n9fmx).
I'm not one of those people. Yes, *Atlas* is silly, cartoonish,
ill-conceived, lazy, and unimaginative, but if you look around, you'll
see that's typical for phone-it-in sci-fi movies. For every *Arrival* or
*2001,* there are scores of braindead
[unobtanium](https://james-camerons-avatar.fandom.com/wiki/Unobtanium)
[promethean](https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/prometheus_2012)
abominations. I had low expectations when I pushed *Atlas's* play
button, and things were unfolding pretty much as anticipated, i.e., I
was pleasantly pissing away two hours watching CGI robots bash each
other to smithereens until my stupefied brain registered an unfortunate
throwaway *sentence*. This sentence wrecked the already marginal *Atlas*
experience and forced me to write this rant.

What set me off?

I'm not issuing spoiler alerts. Low-IQ sci-fi does not merit it. When
*Atlas's* evil AI flees Earth, vowing to return for revenge, middle-aged
and plump-butted Jennifer Lopez (Atlas Shepard) is tasked with
interrogating (torturing actually) one of his AI accomplices to find the
big bad guy. She quickly finds him in the *Andromeda Galaxy*. My inner
amateur astronomer bullshit alarm went off.

So, in this sci-fi universe, we not only have interstellar travel, but
we also have intergalactic travel. In case you're keeping score, sci-fi
intergalactic travel is rare. It's not in the original *Dune*, *Star
Trek*, *Star Wars*, or *Foundation* universes. And the reasons for this
are clear; Douglas Adams said it best:

> Space is big. You just won't believe how vastly, hugely,
> mind-bogglingly big it is. I mean, you may think it's a long way down
> the road to the chemist's, but that's just peanuts to space.

A single garden-variety galaxy like our Milky Way harbors hundreds of
billions of stars: plenty of stages for sci-fi plots. When you start
popping from galaxy to galaxy, your stage count blows up to ten
sextillion.[^8170x1] That's 10^22^ for exponent lovers. This is ridiculously
vast. Even Steven King, cranking out one potboiler after another for the
next million years, couldn't fill our actual universe with stories.

You might interject, "Well, John, what's it to you? Why do you care?"

I care because I like some coherence in my plots.

When the genius-level evil AI flees Earth for Andromeda, you must ask
why he would ever return. If you can fly from galaxy to galaxy, why stop
at Andromeda? Keep going, you dumb fuck; you have trillions of galaxies
to hide in. Even plump-butted Jennifer Lopez can't search the entire
universe. Why come back? The evil AI tells us he must return and purge
humanity because we are self-destructive creatures that will destroy
ourselves and everything we touch. OK, I respect that argument. We are
destructive little shits, and we probably will destroy ourselves, but
get a grip. We are not going to take down the entire universe.[^8170x2] Even
if all our interstellar dreams come true and we spread throughout the
galaxy and fuck over millions of star systems, the greater cosmos still
won't notice. Trashing the universe will always be beyond the powers of
naked apes.

Why doesn't the genius *Atlas* evil AI find a galaxy far, far away and
wait until we destroy ourselves? He's immortal; there's no hurry. So
it takes a few millennia for humans to self-destruct: big freaking deal.
Why take the risk of seeking redundant revenge? This doesn't seem like
genius-level AI thinking to me. I don't know why the retarded *Atlas*
screenwriters dragged the *Andromeda Galaxy* into their hot mess. They
probably wanted to plant an allusion; it makes people think they're
clever when they catch allusions, but whatever the reason, the *Atlas*
screenwriters have an acute case of *Tiny Universe Syndrome*.

*Tiny Universe Syndrome* is the tendency to project our tiny,
overcrowded world onto the universe. It's a complete scale and
imagination failure and betrays the astronomical ignorance of its hosts.
*Tiny Universe Syndrome* is harmless in sci-fi potboilers, but
unfortunately, it shows up in reality. If you've ever read histrionic
screeds about [space
pollution](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/07/environmental-impact-space-debris-how-to-solve-it/),
China taking [control of the
moon](https://www.npr.org/2024/05/06/1249249941/nasa-bill-nelson-moon-artemis-china-starliner),
or snowflakes triggered by the idea of [colonizing other
planets](https://theconversation.com/the-billionaire-space-race-reflects-a-colonial-mindset-that-fails-to-imagine-a-different-world-165235),
then you've encountered *Tiny Universe Syndrome*. Recently, I had an
online spat about [PPR rocket
exhaust](https://www.nasa.gov/directorates/stmd/niac/niac-studies/pulsed-plasma-rocket-ppr-shielded-fast-transits-for-humans-to-mars/).
PPR is a refinement of the [old Orion nuclear
propulsion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Orion_(nuclear_propulsion))
idea. Instead of detonating *biggly* atomic bombs to propel your
spacecraft, detonate *smallish* bomblets instead. PPR *pollutes* the
interplanetary medium with energetic ions, and the dolt I was quarreling
with thought this was a serious problem in immediate need of UN
regulation. I calmly pointed out that even if billions of PPR spacecraft
were blasting ions into the interplanetary medium, it would be
insignificant compared to the solar wind. Also, the solar wind works
like a giant natural waste disposal system that blows ions into galactic
space. This didn't matter to my opponent; he was driven by envy, not
physics. You see, only a privileged few might ride on PPR rockets. This
is intolerable. It's better if we all remain equitably trapped on Earth,
policing our microaggressions and misgenderings until we go extinct.
Given such a grim future, an evil AI genocide is a mercy killing.

[^8170x1]: I would strongly advise learning [large number
    words](https://lcn2.github.io/mersenne-english-name/tenpower/tenpower.html).
    With runaway inflation, you will need them long before global
    warming bakes our naked ape asses.

[^8170x2]: I am assuming the vacuum is stable.
