
[Travel Diary: Brisbane to Canberra (Part 1)](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/12/08/travel-diary-brisbane-to-canberra-part-1/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 08 Dec 2022 19:14:41*

*For most of October 2022, we were traveling in Australia and New
Zealand: two countries that have long lingered on our bucket lists.
While traveling I kept notes on my iPhone and Mac. The following four
blog posts are slightly edited versions of my notes. I cleaned up my
phrasing and inserted appropriate pictures but mostly left things
intact*. Click on any of the images to jump to [my photo
gallery](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/)
for this trip.*


#### **Day 1 Oct 7, 2022, Qantas Flight 56, iPhone**

I am currently sitting on Qantas Flight 56 on the way to Brisbane from
LAX writing this on my iPhone. I have 9400 kilometers and 11 hours and
28 minutes to go. Six months ago, I got up one morning to find that Mali
had booked us on a twelve-day cruise from Sydney Australia around New
Zealand and back. Australia and New Zealand have been on our bucket
lists for years so I agreed and we started planning this trip.

My first act was to buy a good 24-70 *f*2.8 Nikon lens. It's already my
favorite walking-around lens; I've shot hundreds of images with it. My
photographic touring style is to shoot, shoot, and shoot, and then
post-process later. For this once-in-a-lifetime trip, I decided to hell
with scrimping on lenses and get something I wouldn't hesitate to use.

My second act was to get a good pair of portable binoculars. I settled
on 8x42 Maven hunting binoculars after reading how well-regarded they
are by amateur astronomers. 42 millimeters is not a lot but stars are
pinpoint across the field of view and I see about the same number of
objects as my larger 10x50. Not bad for little binoculars.

My third act: I added two more Internet security cameras to monitor the
house during the month we will be away. I also procured a safety deposit
box and stored some valuable bling, our Canadian passports --- we're
traveling as Americans --- and two USB disc drives containing full
backups of all the pictures, blog posts, book drafts, and software I've
created in the last twenty years. If the house burns down my bits will
survive.

Mali planned in her way by booking us into a few good hotels, upgrading
our cruise ship cabin to a veranda room, and *not even entertaining my
plans to camp out under the stars at Uluru*. We're staying in the pricey
Desert Garden Inn instead.

In the last few days, we ticked off our remaining trip preparation
chores and this morning I thought we were ready as our cab pulled up in
front of our house at 5:00 am. The cab ride to the Boise airport was
smooth. After tipping the driver we got in line at Alaska airlines, had
our passports scanned, got our boarding passes, and then joined the
already long TSA security line.

TSA security theater is my least favorite part of flying and I loathe
the other parts. Mali went through the X-ray baggage and Millimeter-Wave
body scanners first, then I followed. Big mistake! I had to unpack my
Mac, stash my watch, wedding ring, and other alarm-tripping items to go
through. The X-ray baggage scan went well, but I was flagged for a pat
down by the Millimeter-Wave. It was probably the two thousand US
dollars, in Benjamins, I had stashed in my pick-pocket proof cargo
pants. While I was being patted down, I lost sight of the Mac. I thought
someone had walked off with it while I was being frisked. I panicked and
foolishly put down my passport and boarding pass while I ran around
looking for the Mac. One of the screeners found the Mac, but then my
passport and boarding pass disappeared. It had been recycled in the
plastic X-ray trays. I went into a full, "I can't believe this," panic.
The TSA staff had to look at their security cameras to track down the
tray containing my passport and boarding pass. For about five minutes I
thought we were going to miss our flight and pooch our trip. I was
incredibly relieved when the TSA found my stuff. *Have you ever been
incredibly relieved by the TSA?*

Well, we made the flight and we're now 8252 kilometers from the Brisbane
airport with 10 more hours to go. The Pacific Ocean is big.

#### **Day 2 Oct 9, 2022, Cystalbrook Vincent Hotel, Brisbane, Mac**

I haven't missed a day. When you cross the International Date Line from
the East you jump forward a day. Our flight chased the sun across the
Pacific making Day 1 a very long day. We arrived without fuss at the
Brisbane Airport just before 6 pm local time and quickly went through
customs. Australian customs are highly automated. You run your passport
through a scanner. Answer a few kiosk questions, mostly about farm
animals --- have you been buggering livestock in the last week? --- sit
for a facial scan and then --- "welcome to Australia." We didn't check
any bags which may turn out to be a mistake for such a long trip but
I've spent way too much time tracking down lost bags over the years. If
we have to visit the odd laundromat while traveling so be it.
Laundromats are surprisingly social. I've had many pleasant chats with
strangers while waiting for dryers but I've never had a pleasant
experience recovering lost airline luggage.

After exiting customs, we hopped a cab from the airport to the
[Crystalbrook Vincent
Hotel](https://www.crystalbrookcollection.com/vincent). The hotel is
right under the Story Bridge in downtown Brisbane. We were zonked from
our butt-numbing 16 hours of flying so we went straight to bed around 8
pm local time and slept until 6 am. I slept well but Mali, as usual, had
a fitful night. She doesn't sleep well most nights and disturbances to
her routines don't help.

The next morning, the 9^th^, we got up and had breakfast in the hotel.
It was my first sampling of Australian hammy bread. This is a great
combination of bread and ham. It's like bacon lovers set up a national
research project to improve on perfection and, against all odds,
succeeded! Mali turned her nose down. She's not a bacon fan. It's a
lamentable holdover from her Iranian childhood. The one unambiguously
good thing you say about sky-fairy prohibitions against eating pork is
that it leaves more bacon and hammy bread for the rest of us. After
eating hammy bread, we set off along the Brisbane Riverwalk towards the
City Botanic Garden.

[Image link: Me City Botanic Garden](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-SpMnddW/A)

Downtown Brisbane is lovely in the spring. This is a very lively city.
People were out walking, jogging, and biking. The parks and streets were
full and everyone looked --- content. The locals know they have a good
thing going here. We made our way to the Botanic Garden where we enjoyed
reading botanical labels on the trees, many of which were new to us. We
huddled under a thick tree during a brief downpour, and then made our
way to a currency exchange. Mali had a particular exchange in mind but
we couldn't find it and settled for one that didn't offer the rate she
had in mind. We exchanged a hundred US and then went to Avis to arrange
a car rental.

[Image link: Story Bridge from hotel](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-FwCCp3L/A)

Cars are hard to rent right now. The post-COVID world is making up for
two years of idiotic lockdowns and other ineffective measures by
traveling like mad. We couldn't rent a Melbourne-bound car for Tuesday
but lucked out for Wednesday. This delay forced another night in
Brisbane. We tried to extend our stay at the Crystalbrook but had to
move over to the downtown [Holiday Inn
Express](https://www.ihg.com/holidayinnexpress/hotels/us/en/brisbane/bneex/hoteldetail).
No matter! We're golfing the Australian part of our trip --- playing the
ball wherever it lands.

The rest of our first day was spent walking on the Story Bridge and
checking out the Felons Brewery just down the block. I sampled some
Felon's beer, paying for it with my Canadian Visa; most businesses are
discouraging cash. Our day ended with gelato cones, unusual for my
foodie wife, in the hotel lobby.

#### **Day 3 Oct 10, 2022, Crystalbrook Vincent Hotel, Brisbane, iPhone**

We were up at 5:30 am and left the hotel shortly after 7:00 am for
breakfast. We were delayed by a video call from Mali's niece Manus.
Manus lives in Brisbane but she's currently in London England. Manus was
feeling bad about missing us and called to suggest places to visit in
Brisbane.

We ate breakfast at Gigi's just down the River Walk from the
Cystalbrook. We both had Shakshuka. It wasn't what Mali was expecting.
She's a hard person to feed.

After breakfast, we walked along the river path to New Farm Park. At New
Farm, we had coffee and almond croissants. Again, the croissants were
not Mali-approved. One highlight we found trees filled with beautiful
little raucous parrots.

After croissants, Mali wanted to ride the bus back towards Queen Street
but currently, the buses are no longer letting potential passengers pay
with either cash or credit. It's another stupid COVID precaution that
has probably not prevented a single infection. The lady at the croissant
place said you could buy bus tickets by walking three minutes away from
New Farm Park and taking a left. We walked for more than three minutes
and ended up in a small mall: the New Farm Market where Mali looked at
shoes.

Giving up on finding a place selling bus tickets we ran into three
Aussies that offered to drive us to either the nearest City Hopper dock
or South Bank. It was very nice of them to give a lift to total
strangers. We went to the nearest City Hopper dock which unfortunately
was closed. We walked to the next dock and caught the boat to South
Bank.

At South Bank, we ate Wagyu Burgers. I liked mine but the sauce was too
sweet for Mali: again, hard to feed.

After our burgers, I made a wrong turn and headed away from Queen
Street. We crossed the pedestrian bridge that connects to QUT and then
walked back to Queen Street on the other side of the Brisbane River.

It was a lot of walking but we eventually, at 3:00 pm, found a currency
exchange, Oz Money, that offered a decent rate. We changed seven hundred
US and walked down Queen Street back to the Cystalbrook where we are,
right now as I peck this out on my iPhone, resting with our feet up in
bed. We're old people after all. Tomorrow, we move over to the Holiday
Inn Express Central for our last night in Brisbane.


#### **Day 4,5 Oct 11,12 2022, Charlesworth Bay Resort, Coffs Harbour, iPhone**

I missed a day and it was a good one. Yesterday, day 4, we changed
hotels. We had to move to the Central Holiday Inn Express for one night.
We were waiting for a car rental. It's hard and expensive to rent cars
in Australia right now. We lucked out with the hotel change and managed
to check in early which left us plenty of time to ride the bus out to
the [Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary](https://lonepinekoalasanctuary.com/) to
see Australia's cuddliest animal.

The koalas did not disappoint.

There were dozens of koalas, some with baby joeys on their backs, we
watched as they were fed and even posed with one. In addition to koalas,
the sanctuary had kangaroos, emus, dingoes, crocodiles, and a host of
lizards and snakes. I was surprised at how calm the kangaroos were.
People were feeding them and they didn't mind being petted. Mali petted
a kangaroo and held a koala. I declined. I don't approve of stressing
animals but I appreciate how posing with koalas raises funds for the
sanctuary.

[Image link: Mali petting kangaroo](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-FdKCt59/A)

Today, day 5, was the most stressful day so far. This morning we
exchanged another thousand US and rented a car. Starting at 11 am I
drove out of the center of Brisbane on the wrong side of the road in a
Toyota Corolla hybrid. I opted for the full insurance package as I
sincerely doubt our US car insurance would work here and I didn't feel
entirely confident I would return the vehicle in one piece. Barring
accidents we're dropping the car at the Melbourne airport.

Switching roadsides is stressful but GPS greatly helps. Without the GPS
lady, who has a cute Australian accent, it would have been a chore
getting out of Brisbane. Once we were on the M3 it wasn't so bad. By the
time we got to Byron Bay, I was getting the hang of mirror-image
driving.

At Byron Bay, we had lunch and visited the lighthouse. Most lighthouses
are scenic but this one is especially so. As a plus Cape Byron is the
most easterly point on the Australian continent. Good been there done
that material! After the lighthouse, we got back on the M1 to drive to
Port Macquarie. We didn't get that far and stopped at Coffs Harbour. We
didn't have a hotel or motel booked and everything was full. Mali
managed to get us into the [Charlesworth Bay
Resort](https://charlesworthbaybeachresort.com.au/) using booking.com
while we were eating in an Indian restaurant. It was a hassle finding
our room (it was like an Airbnb) but the fellow renting rooms met us and
let us in. You need to book beforehand and you need an Internet
connection to do it.

Postscript:

1.  When traveling in the US Mali spends an inordinate amount of time on
    her phone looking for motels and restaurants. We didn't upgrade our
    Verizon plan before heading to Australia and New Zealand, opting
    instead to use public Wi-Fi and VPN. This generally worked out in
    the big Australian and New Zealand cities. Most stores, coffee
    shops, libraries, and museums have excellent free Wi-Fi but when we
    were on the road, we were offline. I didn't mind but it crimped
    Mali's style.


#### **Day 6 Oct 13, 2022, Holiday Inn Express, Newcastle, Mac**

Today we drove from Coffs Harbour to a [Holiday Inn
Express](https://www.ihg.com/holidayinnexpress/hotels/us/en/newcastle/ntlnc/hoteldetail)
in Newcastle making a few side trips to Gladstone and Crescent Head. It
was only 400 kilometers but it felt much longer. New roads and new
situations always feel longer. Crescent Head was well worth the detour
from A1. Crescent Head is a surfers' reserve. I was unaware that surf
and surfers needed to be "reserved" but apparently, they do. My second
day of mirror-image driving felt almost normal. I am still accidentally
hitting the left switch for the goddamn blinkers. The left switch works
on Mercedes but is exactly the opposite for Toyotas. It took me months
to switch from our old Toyota to "Chunky", our Mercedes, and now I have
to undo all that conditioning, plus deal with cars on the other side of
the road. On a plus note Australians, at least the ones on the east
coast, are well-behaved drivers. I don't see a lot of speeders or
US-style roadside dumb-assery. I was also pleasantly surprised with my
first gas station experience. In the US and Canada, you have to pay
before gassing up. When I was growing up you could fill up and then pay
but around the 1970s too many dipshits started driving away without
paying. So now we all have to pay first! Here in Australia, they still
let drivers fill up and *then* pay. Woo freaking who! Aussies are more
honest than Americans. They're also whiter. While waiting in the gas
line I noticed that every single driver in front of me was a white guy.
Many had young-guy beards. A similar gas line in the States wouldn't be
all white guys and the cashier might even be hiding behind bullet-proof
glass. Diversity has not improved the gas station experience.


#### **Day 7,8,9 Oct 14,15,16, Mantra Albury Hotel, Albury, iPhone**

Not keeping up. We drove from Newcastle to Canberra and stayed with
Mali's cousin on Masson Street, Turner ACT.

We arrived late afternoon on the 14th. The next day we toured Canberra.
Saw Ainsley's Mountain Lookout, the Australian Parliament, the National
Art Gallery, the Botanical Gardens, Telstra Tower, and the Arboretum
where I climbed Dairy Farmers Hill and scanned the springtime landscape.

[Image link: Canberra country spring](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Australia-New-Zealand-2022/i-693fxcR/A)

The next day we stopped at the old bus station market before heading to
Melbourne on M31.

We stayed the night at Albury in the [Mantra Albury
Hotel](https://www.mantraalbury.com.au/).
