 
[Trey and Kate: Review](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2019/11/08/trey-and-kate-review/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 08 Nov 2019 22:00:43*

This will be a completely biased review. I have a close relationship
with the author so everything I say must be verified. Please buy [Trey
and
Kate](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1687011508/ref=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout?ie=UTF8&tag=x_gr_w_bb_glide_sout-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1687011508&SubscriptionId=1MGPYB6YW3HWK55XCGG2),
read it, and make up your mind. With that caveat out of the way let’s
get started.

*Trey and Kate* is a tale about an on and off again Millennial romance
that plays out in Kingston Ontario. The two leads are not exactly star
crossed lovers. They’re both partly broken and struggling with mental
illness, past life hallucinations, deficient friends, and
uncomprehending divorced families. Kate is bipolar and goes on and off
her meds throughout. Trey is stuck in a dead-end barista job: remember
Millennials. He’s mourning a deceased unloving father and has only two
reliable relationships: his cat and his mother. Trey and Kate’s dreams
hint at a shared past and promise a joint future but offer little
practical guidance.

With destiny seemingly on their side, you would expect their romance to
go smoothly; it does not. When Kate goes off her meds she’s impulsive
and prone to risky behavior. The book’s best passages detail her sordid
bouts of random sex with total strangers. It’s almost prostitution but
Kate doesn’t have the business sense of a prostitute. Of course, this
doesn’t help her relationship with Trey. To his credit or shame, he
forgives her but we’re not sure if his forgiveness is self-pity. Trey’s
self-esteem is so low he finds it almost comical than any woman could
love him. Welcome to the club Trey. Trey and Kate’s interaction is both
frustrating, satisfying, embarrassing, irritating and fulfilling.

*Trey and Kate* is the author’s first book. I know the author struggled
to put the book together. Its best parts are purely descriptive and when
the author shows us what the characters are seeing and feeling the prose
tells. When the text ventures into rhetorical semi-poetic asides it
hollows out. *Trey and Kate* feels like a screenplay disguised as a
novel.  This is partly due to the almost cinematic presence of the
setting Kingston Ontario, a dull stone-filled town that would be
unlivable without Lake Ontario, and Kingston’s wretched weather which is
every bit as bad as it’s portrayed in *Trey and Kate*. I’d encourage the
author to keep writing, rewriting and experimenting. There are good
stories to tell here.
