 
[Twitter is not Trivial](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/12/15/twitter-is-not-trivial/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 16 Dec 2013 04:10:57*

I enjoy being wrong because it doesn’t happen very often. When
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/) first reared its itty-bitty head I
thought it was one of the dumbest ideas ever. Who wants to “tweet”, in
an utterly disorganized stream of consciousness way, 140 character
messages to total strangers? What could emerge from such inane chatter?
Isn’t this like looking for meaning in the splash patterns of tossed
primate poop? Twitter may still end up being a bad business but it’s
clearly shown that brevity really is the soul of wit.

Twitter teaches that:

**The much maligned common man, the *hoi polloi,* the rabble, the
unwashed masses, the lumpenproletariat are collectively a hell of a lot
smarter than their delusional masters.** Take any media hot topic of the
last few years and compare snarky Twitter traffic to the foul
self-serving emissions of the drooling, (they only think they rule),
classes and you’ll quickly see that the *Twitter’atti* not only see
through multiple layers of bullshit but usually arrive at viable
solutions long before our self-declared “elites” even perceive a
problem.

**The public has a collective genius for image captions.** The best
political cartoons, captioned images and irreverent posters are no
longer found in newspapers or “sanctioned” outlets. The best of the best
are posted on Twitter. I waste far more time than I should thumbing
through captioned Twitter images. I usually see at least one pants
peeing funny image every day. Thank you Twitter: laughter is the only
medicine that’s not encumbered by pharmaceutical patents, co-pays and
Obamacare coverage fines.

**The 140 character message limit brings people together.** This is one
of the more surprising Twitter revelations. My Twitter contacts are far
more diverse that my email buddies, blog readers, Facebook friends or
LinkedIn references. On Twitter I deal with “entities” I wouldn’t even
cross virtual streets to pee on. I regularly hear from religious nuts,
schizophrenic 9/11 troofers, Big Foot hunters, Austrian and Keynesian
economists, far left and right bloggers, porn stars, government
agencies, (the [IRS is on Twitter](https://twitter.com/IRSnews)),
academic organizations, [space-faring
robots](https://twitter.com/MarsCuriosity), mathematical theorems, gun
nuts, anti-gun nuts, global warming alarmists and deniers, Justin
Trudeau fans and, the most delusional of the lot: Obama supporters. You
can take anything in 140 character doses!

Not only is Twitter fun it’s already logged an impressive public service
resume by:

**Providing an irresistible honey trap for narcissistic class A
assholes.** Without Twitter Anthony Weiner would probably still be a
corrupt lying New York Democrat congressman or worse, the mayor of New
York. Alex Baldwin would still be hurling feces on MSNBC and Dane
Deutsch would be happily ensconced in the Wisconsin state legislature.
Twitter makes it easy for our, in their own heads only, “elites” to
[self
destruct](https://content.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,2075071\_2075082\_2075118,00.html)
in public. Self humiliation is the best kind.

**Serving as another canary in the liberty coal mine.** Distinctions
like democratic and totalitarian are almost without merit. One man’s
democratic republic is another’s Gulag. A more meaningful metric is:
allows Twitter, bans Twitter. [Here’s a list of Twitter
banners.](https://www.buzzfeed.com/miriamberger/11-countries-where-twitter-is-not-free)
Only one country on this list surprised me. If your country is on this
list you might want to consider emigration, or fleeing, because you are
living in regime that cannot tolerate even 140 characters of criticism.

Yes Virginia, Twitter is far from trivial.
