 
[Ukraine takeaway: Don’t give up your Nukes](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/18/ukraine-takeaway-dont-give-up-your-nukes/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 18 Apr 2014 14:07:29*

What’s the one sentence takeaway from the unfolding Ukraine mess?
**Don’t give up your nukes!** It’s unlikely that any of this would be
happening if Ukraine had retained their nuclear weapons instead of
turning them in for the magic beans of “international guarantees.” It
would be interesting to review the anti-nuke sales pitches made to
Ukrainian officials; I’m guessing large undisclosed deposits were made
to key bank accounts because [such
stupidity](http://www.slate.com/blogs/the\_world\_/2014/03/19/the\_budapest\_memorandum\_in\_1994\_russia\_agreed\_to\_respect\_ukraine\_s\_borders.html)
is hard to reconcile otherwise.

Nuclear weapons are so icky and evil that [enlightened beings
pine](http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/news/nilegardiner/100002371/is-obama-the-most-naive-president-in-us-history/)
for a nuke free world. Why? *Because the world before nukes was just so
peachy wonderful!* Surely you remember that awesome world, great states
only marched off to world wars every generation or so. The strong never
rolled over the weak, and we all lived in peace and prosperity. OK, I’m
being sarcastic about peace and prosperity, but consider this, since the
advent of nuclear weapons, there have been no, **great state vs. great
state**, major wars.[^4660a] The simple truth is: nuclear weapons have done
more for world peace than all the naive treaties, peace conferences and
marches ever held.

War, despite the propaganda to the contrary, is a fundamentally rational
undertaking. There’s a famous line in the movie Patton. While watching a
long line of trucks and armored vehicles roll over Sicilian countryside
the great general declares that all human achievements pale in
comparison to war. Before getting your peacenik panties in an indigent
bloodstained bunch think about what this means. It’s an irrefutable
historical fact that humans have invested enormous amounts of time and
energy planning and executing wars. Some wars are accidental but most
are planned, and here’s the surprisingly bit, many of the plans make
perfect business sense. If you can crush an opponent and advance your
interests with acceptable losses what’s going to stop you: international
law, naive new age dolts, human decency, the UN? How about nuclear
weapons? *Nuclear weapons have pushed losses beyond acceptable and that
is the only reason great states have not directly engaged in the last
seventy years.*

Unfortunately, the old world of a few nuclear states and a naive
non-proliferation treaty is unwinding. It was pretty frayed before the
Ukraine crisis but now it’s dead. Any state that depends on a nuclear
armed ally coming their rescue is reconsidering. Can Japan depend on the
US to back it up in a conflict with China? What about Australia? Even
Canada has to wonder if anyone has their back in the arctic. In the
years ahead we are going to see a rash of new nuclear powers. I doubt
these new powers will be stupid enough to detonate bombs in the open.
Most will follow the Israeli model: acquire the ability but never
officially disclose it. I suspect Iran is already a member of this club
simply because US intelligence, (don’t make me laugh), says otherwise.
The world is going to get a lot more scary but don’t worry you can only
die — in excruciating pain — once.

[^4660a]: There have been dozens of great state vs. small state and hundreds
    of small state vs. smaller state wars but no nuclear powers, even
    relatively crazy ones like Pakistan and India, have come to nuclear
    blows. I predict that when Iran *shows nuclear* instead of nuking
    Israel it will suddenly find reasons not to. There’s nothing like
    immediate annihilation to clear the mind.
