
[Ukraine Unknowns](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/10/01/ukraine-unknowns/)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 01 Oct 2022 20:34:19*

This will be my sole posting about the ongoing clusterfuck in Ukraine.
In 2014, shortly after Russia invaded Crimea, I posted this little
ditty, [Ukraine takeaway: Don't give up
yourÂ Nukes](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2014/04/18/ukraine-takeaway-dont-give-up-your-nukes/).
I cynically observed that if the morons that constituted the first
Ukrainian government after the dissolution of the Soviet Union had held
onto a few of their Soviet-era nukes there would have been no Crimean
invasion. But no, the dolts either took large bribes and sold out their
new country or were stupid enough to trade for the impotent magic beans
of *international guarantees*. Either way, a *nuke-less* Ukraine has
proven to be a morsel that Putin cannot resist. So here we are today
with another invasion, another bullshit annexation of Ukrainian
territory, and constant threats to use tactical nuclear weapons to
reverse recent Ukrainian advances on the battlefield. Again, if the
Ukrainians had kept a few nukes none of this shit would be happening.

Shortly after Putin annexed four eastern regions of Ukraine the
president of Ukraine, [Volodymyr
Zelenskyy,](https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/17/politics/how-to-spell-volodymyr-zelenskyy/index.html)[^7534x1]
applied for immediate NATO membership. This is going to be interesting!
From the very start of this second invasion, NATO has supported Ukraine
but has strived to avoid direct conflict with nuclear-armed Russia. It's
a hard position to maintain. All of my wife's little YouTube communists
and socialists have been taking pains to abhor Putin's aggression, call
for peace, and caution western powers from doing anything that might
result in their little YouTube asses getting nuked. Of course, this is
just more magic beans. Thugs like Putin and Xi only respect and respond
to raw naked force. Attempts to negotiate with such creatures insults
the intelligence of everyone involved.

Here's what's on tap for Zelenskyy's NATO application. Slow Joe Biden,
boy toy Macron, shiny pony Trudeau, and the rest of the NATO nitwits
really don't want this because it would put NATO into a direct shooting
war with Russia which as many YouTube hypocrites have observed might
lead to World War III and an immediate *nuclear winter fix* of global
warming. Hey, rotting radioactive corpses put less CO<sub>2</sub> into the
atmosphere than brain dead, (but living corpses), riding around in SUVs.
A nuclear war will be very bad news for us but it might well be a plus
for the planet. So chill bitches, we're all going to die, whether we go
one-by-one, or all together, is ultimately moot.

The NATO nitwits know Zelenskyy is calling them out so they will do what
politicians always do when faced with an actual choice. They will ignore
it and their flying butt monkeys in the media will comply. Yesterday, I
bet my wife that the global garbage media (GGM) wouldn't mention
Zelenskyy's request. We sat through a few newscasts and yup, nothing
came up. Hurricane Ian in Florida grabbed most of the attention, then
inflation, then the fucking US midterm elections, (I'm hoping *all* the
candidates die of agonizing anal cancer), then came our daily dose of
"think about the plight of the poor BIPOC'ky transgendered\" which was
then followed by some words from our corporate sponsors. Zelenskyy's
request, as I foretold, didn't come up. The global garbage media is as
predictable as Cold War era Radio Moscow and just as useless.

If Zelenskyy keeps pestering, and he will, the NATO nitwits and the GGM
will be forced to find a way to avoid taking a stance. Most likely some
little NATO country will object to Ukraine's application and Zelenskyy's
request will go to the bottom of the agenda where it will stay until it
can no longer be ignored. When this occurs the GGM, which includes
Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and TikTok will amplify their current
campaigns against Zelenskyy. Then *respectable* *propagandists* like the
New York Times will start running pieces questioning the wisdom of
supporting a conflict that might, [Flying Spaghetti
Monster](https://www.spaghettimonster.org/) forbid, distract us from the
real issues like climate change. We've already heard such inane noises
from things like John Kerry and the new King Chuck. And, people wonder
why some of us want to get off planet moron.

I will soon be embarking on a long post-COVID, (yeah it's over for
everyone except immunocompromised comorbid porkers), trip. If the world
blows up while I'm traveling, I will take comfort in the fact that the
cosmos won't miss us, and if I survive the initial blasts, I will blog
from our rubble-bounced apocalypse.

[^7534x1]: We can't even agree on how to spell "Zelenskyy." I rather doubt we
    will make any good choices about the rest of this mess.
