 
[2012 Venus Transit and Annular Eclipse](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/04/22/2012-venus-transit-and-annular-eclipse/)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 22 Apr 2012 23:05:20*

I’m gearing up for two big eminent celestial events. On May 20^th^ I’ll
be near Page Arizona observing an annular eclipse of the Sun and on June
5^th^, weather permitting, I’ll be in St. Louis watching Venus creep on
the disc of the Sun for the last time in my lifetime.

Eclipses and transits are spectacular events for amateur astronomers and
innocent bystanders. Of the two eclipses offer the greater spectacle. In
fact, for sheer unbridled *awesomeness,* it’s hard to beat a total
eclipse of the Sun! You can add up all the World Cups and Super Bowls
ever played and they would barely register on the logarithmic total
solar eclipse spectacle scale. [The one total solar eclipse I
saw](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/Trips/Overseas/Zambia-Eclipse-Trip-1/7415645\_k65QRs)
easily ranks as the greatest thing I’ve ever seen and I’m including the
births of my children. The May 20^th^ solar eclipse is annular so it’s
not in the same galaxy as a total but annular’s have their charms. At
maximum eclipse the Sun appears like a perfect blazing ring of light. In
Page it will be 10 degrees above the north-western horizon: a good
altitude for composing solar landscape pictures.

By comparison the June 5^th^ transit of Venus will not be a big show.
Without proper equipment you won’t be able to see it at all. During
transit Venus looks like a little black dot on the Sun. The best way to
see this event is with telescope or binocular projection. **Under no
circumstances should you look directly at the Sun without proper eye
protection!** For safe transit viewing techniques look
[here](https://www.mreclipse.com/Totality/TotalityCh11.html). In 2004 I
used binocular projection to view the last transit of Venus from Ottawa
Canada. Transits of Venus come in pairs, eight year apart, followed by
over a century before the next pair. After 2012 you will have to wait
until 2117 to see another transit of Venus. This is our last chance
people. Yeah mortality seriously blows.
