 
[What’s In it for Facebook?](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/09/05/whats-in-it-for-facebook/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 05 Sep 2009 22:44:50*

[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com) is huge: they brag about a user
count well north of one hundred million. If only 0.5% of their users are
active that’s 500,000 *concurrent users.* How many expensive servers
does it take to support such a load? How much does Facebook shell out
for bandwidth? What does it cost them to house the stables of *twenty
something* web programmers required to keep their pages up and humming?
Here’s a hint for all you, *“[information wants to be
free](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information\_wants\_to\_be\_free),”*
socialists out there; **it’s not free!**

Sites like Facebook blow through hundreds of thousands of dollars every
month just so you can tag your friends, play silly games and post
pictures of your pets. Here’s an old guy question; *what’s in it for
Facebook?*

Do any of you seriously think Facebook is doing this for the good of
mankind? Well, I hate to harsh your mellow, but nobody, and I mean
*absolutely nobody*, does anything for the good of mankind. There is
always payment in some form. The form varies. I prefer cash; it’s crass;
it’s direct and it’s bullshit free. The downside: there can be tax
liabilities. Maybe you prefer payment in the form of self delusions:
“I’m doing all this volunteer work because I am a good person.” Perhaps
you take Mother Teresa accolades, adulation and Nobel Peace Prizes,
(going to
[murders](https://nobelprize.org/nobel\_prizes/peace/laureates/1994/arafat-bio.html)
and
[charlatans](https://nobelprize.org/nobel\_prizes/peace/laureates/2007/)
these days), and if you are a *class A
[numnut](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=numnut) that
ultimate noncash payment: [The Order of
Canada](https://www.gg.ca/honours/nat-ord/oc/index\_e.asp).* Live in
Canada long enough, sticking to your politically correct guns, and it’s
yours for the taking.

Getting back to those silly Facebook games and pet pictures. Every time
you boot one of these irritants it asks if it can rip your name and
contact information. You want to play so you press yes. With a mouse
click another marketer gains access your email, name, address and friend
list. Then the silly game runs and you divulge more of yourself to
perfect strangers that are spending long hours programming diversions
for the *good of mankind*.

I don’t care if some random manufacturer of crap learns that my favorite
color is purple: ancient royalty you know. They may send me some purple
junk email that will be mutilated by my spam terminators. But I am one
among millions. If the same email goes out to millions a few may respond
in the warm cashy way marketers seek. Facebook is a gigantic indirect
marketing and data mining operation that pays the bills by parceling out
user information to third parties. These parties are selling everything
from soap to politicians. This is what’s in it for Facebook.

I haven’t seen Facebook’s books so I don’t know if this is a sound
business or another venture capital delusion that will implode when the
money runs out. Time will soon tell. In the meanwhile here is some
Facebook advice.

1.  **Google your name. If your Facebook page shows on the first page be
    very careful about what you post.** Employers are now searching
    social networks when screening potential employees. They will be
    thrilled to hear about how you puked all over the late night buffet
    while climbing down from your last crack high.

2.  **Facebook friends are not necessarily real friends.** Does anyone
    have 718 real flesh and blood friends? Nobody is that popular.
    Nobody wants to be that popular.

3.  **The more silly games, groups and postings you deploy the deeper
    and thicker your on-line profile becomes.** All this crap, be honest
    it’s mostly crap, might outlive you. Do you really want your epitaph
    to read: Iced 1,724 in Mafia Wars.

Have I harshed your Facebook mellow?
