 
[What hobbies do you have? Have you learned anything useful from them?](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/04/20/what-hobbies-do-you-have-have-you-learned-anything-useful-from-them/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 20 Apr 2015 19:55:35*

This is my first “cross-posted” entry. I composed this on
[Quora](https://www.quora.com/John-Baker-98/). I was asked to answer
[the title
question](http://www.quora.com/What-hobbies-do-you-have-Have-you-learned-anything-useful-from-them/answer/John-Baker-98)
and I did. I probably won’t do this very often. Still, a little
experimenting is fun.

Answer by John Baker:

The short answer is *many* and *yes*. The longer answer is pretty much
everything I do, *that matters to me*, is a hobby of some form or other.
Some of my major hobbies are:

1.  Amateur Astronomy

2.  Photography

3.  Blogging

4.  Recreational Programming.

Amateur Astronomy has been a lifelong pursuit. I was hooked as a child
looking at Venus’s crescent through a small refractor in the badlands of
Utah. It’s hard to relate how much I have learned from Amateur Astronomy
or how much it has influenced my life but it is a *lot* and *heavily*.
My decision to study science in school and later university were
outgrowths of this passion. I have traveled all over the world to view
eclipses, see spectacular comets, and tour major observatories. Even
today the best possible night for me is to stand alone under clear
extremely dark high altitude skies and soak in the gentle light of the
Milky Way.

Photography is also a lifelong hobby. I shot my first roll of film on a
cheap fixed focus camera when I was eight. I blow hot and cold on my
hobbies. Sometimes they utterly dominate my every waking hour. Other
times they lie dormant, ignored, waiting for me to pick them up again.
Photography is such a hobby. Over the decades it has taught me a lot of
chemistry: I started picture taking in the “chemical” era. Nowadays I’ve
absorbed a wide variety of photography related software skills. I’ve
also learned a lot of history. Studying early photographers and how they
created some of their iconic images is fascinating.

[Blogging](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/) is relatively
new hobby. I started with the idea that it would be good “composition
practice,” a way to learn about web site maintenance, and finally a safe
way to vent without serving time for assaulting imbeciles. It has met
all these expectations and more. It’s presumptuous for bloggers to
describe themselves as writers but you do acquire a greater
understanding of what writers do. That old joke about being a drunk with
a writing problem is not far from the mark.

As for recreational programming: despite going into work day after day,
year after year, and staring at screens of, *please stab my eyes out,*
“work code.” I still muster the energy to work at home on software
projects using unconventional programming languages and tools. Many
professional peers have poked fun at my eccentric tastes and others have
told me I was wasting my time. The joke has been on them. Many that cast
these aspersions are no longer employed while my current job is a direct
consequence of knowing things the convention bound do not.

I have learned many specific things from my hobbies but the single best
thing I’ve learned is simple intellectual integrity. Nobody is going to
do your hobby for you. Paying others to take up your hobbies makes no
sense. Cheating on a hobby is crazy. You have to do the work by
yourself; you have to learn by yourself; you have to think for yourself!
Hobbies refine our individuality; I’d recommend more hobbies for
everyone.
