 
[What is Required: Print Captions on the back of Photographs](https://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2015/09/07/what-is-required-print-captions-on-the-back-of-photographs/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 07 Sep 2015 20:14:52*

I am tired of waiting for “the market” to exploit painfully obvious
opportunities so I will now provide guidance, in the form of *milliblog*
entries, that tell our less imaginative entrepreneurs just what some of
us would buy if we could.

Here’s a deep request. *How about printing captions on the back of
photographs?*

I just went through the excruciating ordeal of ordering about one
hundred prints from [SmugMug](https://www.smugmug.com/). SmugMug prints
meet my high standards but their online ordering software is clunky and
clearly geared toward very small print runs. If you have hundreds of
pictures, of varying and custom sizes, the software will punish you. The
obvious steps of setting a paper type, selecting all your images, and
then letting the software work out the paper size from image aspect
ratio is not available. You must go image by image setting one easily
derived parameter after another. I would print a lot more if it wasn’t
such a frigging chore.

As annoying as SmugMug print-ordering is at least I get the prints I
want with one major exception. If you check out [my online
photographs](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/) you’ll see I use
captions like *nanoblog* entries. Many people have told me they really
like my captions. One of my pet peeves is unlabeled photographs. I have
wonderful hundred-year-old photographs of elegantly posed complete
strangers because *nobody left a clue on the back*.

**So, in addition to printing timestamps and file names on the back of
photographs, include captions as well!**

*P.S. It takes about five years for the market to meet my obvious
requirements; don’t hold your breath.*
