 
[What is Required: Hybrid Books](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/03/25/what-is-required-hybrid-books/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 25 Mar 2017 17:15:25*

It’s time for another product suggestion. Last year I threw out the need
for [caption printing on the back of
photographs](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2015/09/07/what-is-required-print-captions-on-the-back-of-photographs/).
It’s an obvious thing to do but only a few vendors *partly support*
backside caption printing. Eventually, the masses will notice this
glaring deficiency, grab their pitchforks, and demand backside captions.
We’re not a very smart species but we can learn; especially if we’re
motivated by fear. Today’s suggestion is little more esoteric and lacks
the “aha-ness” of backside captions.

**The world needs a way to combine the virtues of Books and eBooks.**

If you read at all I don’t need to convince you that books are nearly
perfect. The near perfection of the printed book was brilliantly
highlighted in Isaac Asimov’s famous 1973 essay *The Ancient and the
Ultimate*. [Asimov’s
essay](https://www.jstor.org/stable/40009789?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents)
is not readily available on-line and that’s too damn bad because he
completely nailed it. *The Ancient and the Ultimate* should be required
reading in English classes worldwide; it’s that good!

Plain old printed books are nearly perfect but nearly perfect is not
perfect! eBooks do three things better than printed books.

1.  **Duplication**: It’s easy to copy eBooks.[^5353a] 

2.  **Portability**: You can carry entire eBook libraries around on
    your phone.

3.  **Multimedia**: eBooks can easily embed sound recordings and video.

Printed books reign supreme when it comes to:

1.  **Durability**: There are printed books that are hundreds of years
    old that are still *human-readable*. Binary formats and media are
    infuriatingly unstable. I’ve [complained about this in the
    past](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2010/12/06/soon-we-will-all-be-software-archeologists/)
    and I will continue bitching until the long-term binary storage
    problem is solved.

2.  **Privacy and Security**: eBook readers, cell phones, tablets, and
    laptops can be hacked. Plain old printed books do not spy on you or
    mutate while you’re reading them. They also don’t bombard you with
    hard to ignore advertisements.

3.  **Aesthetics and Beauty**: Great printed books are extremely
    valuable works of art. It’s going to be a long time before eBooks
    command such respect.

Given that eBooks have a few virtues that printed books do not the
obvious question is, “Can we combine the two and form a more perfect
book?” Of course, the answer is yes but, like I warned you with backside
captions, don’t hold your breath!

A proper Hybrid Book, or *hyBook*, will look, smell, and taste like a
printed book. It will have all the glorious heft of a thick well-bound
tome but embedded within it’s covers will be a machine readable version
of the book. Ideally, the embedded digital version would be something
like an
[RFID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio-frequency_identification)
capable of storing a few gigabytes of data for at least two centuries
without bit rot.[^5353b]  To maintain a high level of privacy and security
the digital version must be completely off-line, passive, battery-free,
immutable, and hashed with the hash prominently printed on a number of
pages of the printed version. Such a hyBook would combine the virtues of
the printed and digital worlds.

hyBooks, like their conventional printed cousins, would be durable and
*human-readable* over long periods. This sharply contrasts with eBooks.
*eBooks, with their lamentable DRM policies, geographic restrictions,
user monitoring, oligopolistic pricing, and built in obsolescence are
essentially self-burning books.* You cannot depend on eBook longevity
because you don’t control them; they can be conveniently
[memory-holed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory_hole) without
warning. With hyBooks you are in control.

Finally, hyBooks mitigate the most important limitation of printed
works: duplication difficulty. As we move into an increasing DRM’ed and
censored future with every aggrieved party screaming for limitations on
free speech it will become more important to preserve, duplicate, and
distribute offensive, blasphemous, pornographic, and opprobrious
*wrongthink*! With well-distributed and hidden hyBooks functioning as
highly redundant off-line backups it will be extremely difficult for
authorities to suppress ideas. Whenever some *twad*[^5353c]  forces the
content of a hyBook off-line it will pop up again somewhere else. To
memory-holing censors everywhere hyBooks will be like floating turds;
one flush will never suffice. Is there any better recommendation than
that?

[^5353a]: This only applies to non-DRM’ed eBooks.
    [DRM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_rights_management)’ed
    eBooks are broken. They should be avoided at all costs and their
    publishers should be tarred and feathered and stuffed head first
    into septic tanks.

[^5353b]: Currently, (March 2017), there is no cost-effective *durable and
    passive* technology that can store a digital image of a book within
    its covers for two centuries.

[^5353c]: **Tw**it **a**sshole and **d**olt: pejorative invention is one of
    my many specialties.
