 
[What’s the opposite of Transcendence?](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2014/04/18/whats-the-opposite-of-transcendence/) 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 19 Apr 2014 01:52:45*

Serious science fiction is a demanding cinematic genre; that’s why you
see so little of it! Most of what passes for science fiction is
out-and-out comic fantasy. In the last year only three marginally
serious science fiction films made it to wide release: [Catching
Fire](http://www.catchingfiremovie.com/),
[Divergent](http://divergentthemovie.com/) and
[Transcendence](http://www.transcendencemovie.com/). Sadly, they’re all
pretty awful and Transcendence is the biggest letdown of the three.
Here’s why.

Transcendence is another riff on *real* AI. Even though we live in a
world of talking cell phones and computer Jeopardy champions a sizeable
cohort of *AI deniers* claim *machines will never think.* The best
answer I’ve heard to this came from a young woman who noted that, “I am
a machine and I think.” Well I am thinking machine too and until there
are serious scientific or mathematical arguments demonstrating that
minds cannot, even in principle, be simulated by computations, assuming
intelligence is algorithmic remains our best working hypothesis.
Transcendence gets all this right. None of the characters in
Transcendence go on about whether real AI is possible. Even the fearful
anti-AI faction takes it as a given; it’s what they are afraid of.

If intelligence is algorithmic then it follows that we are nothing more
than programs trapped in messy hardware. Separating hardware and
software is one of the glories of our age. We take it for granted that
if we change the software we change the machine. The other day I killed
off my old WinXP laptop and then resurrected it as a [Mint
Linux](http://www.linuxmint.com/) device. The hardware is the same but
the machine is very different. We cannot do this with brains — yet. The
software that makes you, you, is regrettably entwined with the hardware
that runs you. Nature has evolved better intellectual property
protection than a division of parasitic IP lawyers. One of the great
challenges of our age is breaking down nature’s intellectual property
protection and reading out the software in brains. Transcendence also
gets all this right. The best part of the film involves uploading a
dying Will Caster, (Johnny Depp), into a bank of quantum computers.[^4670a]

Up until Will goes live on his quantum cores Transcendence is a fine
film. I kept pinching myself thinking: they’re not screwing it up or
dumbing it down. This might be great. Then my hopes were crushed. Before
Will went all quantum *supercomputery* he gave a TED’ish talk pointing
out that when real AI arrives it will have more raw intellectual
capacity than all human brains combined. When transcendent beings emerge
in stories the plot often goes straight to pot. This is not a new
artistic problem. It’s so common in science fiction that I even have a
name for it: *the superior being problem.*

Depicting superior beings poses fundamental problems for feeble brained
naked ape authors. Look at what a moron God is in the first few books of
the Bible. Scores of fine science fiction novels have been trashed by
trying to imagine what truly superior beings would think and do. The
only approach that works is oblique. You can suggest the workings of
superior minds. [2001: A Space
Odyssey](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0062622/) is a classic example of
doing this right, but for reasons that escape me, many authors take on
the inner life of superior minds only to show their own rather mediocre
ones. Transcendence didn’t even make an honest effort to deal with the
superior being problem: what a disappointment. Instead of enjoying new
ideas I spent the rest of Transcendence wondering why our transcendent
protagonist was such a dolt. Not really the transcendent experience I
was looking for.

[^4670a]: The jury is out on the feasibility of practical quantum computers.
    If quantum computers can be made to work they will solve certain
    classes of problems faster than conventional machines but, and this
    is a big but, they will not expand the notion of what’s
    *computable*. It’s rather amazing that what’s computable has not
    expanded since Turning’s great theorems of the 1930’s.
