 
[What is Required: Citizen Environment Sampling Drones](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/04/30/what-is-required-citizen-environment-sampling-drones/)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 01 May 2017 00:34:14*

We are well into the drone age. Not long ago drones served only
deep-pocketed governments and corporations. This is still the case.
Whenever you hear about drone strikes on wedding parties, oops terrorist
gatherings, the “responsible” drone is probably a standard overpriced
multimillion dollar product of the military industrial crony complex.
Why dispatch terrorists with a few bullets when you can spend millions
of newly created and freshly taxed dollars instead? War may be hell but
business is business.

If things had been left to the druthers of the crony crowd the cozy
world of cost-plus drones would have lasted forever but then technology
happened. Remember those annoying toy quadcopters that flew around the
atriums of shopping malls just a few years ago. You probably thought,
“That’s a cute toy” Well those cheap little toys have grown up and are
now [cleaning power lines with flame
throwers](http://www.popularmechanics.com/flight/drones/a25282/flame-throwing-drones/),
[carrying drugs across
borders](http://dailycaller.com/2016/03/30/narco-drones-the-cartels-newest-tech-savvy-smuggling-sop-spooks-security-experts/),[^5375a]
[smuggling contraband into
prisons](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/prisons-try-to-stop-drones-from-delivering-drugs-porn-and-cellphones-to-inmates/2016/10/12/645fb102-800c-11e6-8d0c-fb6c00c90481_story.html),
[annoying eagles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdgvlHH3JSA),
[dropping grenades on
ISIS](http://nypost.com/2017/03/16/war-against-isis-now-involves-shuttlecock-grenades-dropped-by-drones/),
and [taking really great
selfies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FZOgy5V9imI).

Small inexpensive drones are being put to so many creative uses that
it’s beginning to worry our self-appointed overlords. You don’t need
crony connections and millions of dollars to launch drone attacks. Any
moron with an iPhone and a drone can declare war on the ruling classes.
Not many see it but we’re entering a golden age of drone assassins.
Small drones will continue to improve and diversify. They will fly
further, faster and quieter. They will creep, climb, tunnel and bore
through any obstacle. Whatever silly government legislation and
anti-drone measures authorities concoct will be quickly countered and
worked around. The drone genie, like strong encryption before it, is out
of the bottle and it isn’t going back in. *Basically, if you’re somebody
that needs killing a drone is being assigned your number right now.*

As much as I enjoy drone enabled asshole termination that’s not what I
am requiring today. If you’ve been paying attention to what’s precisely
labeled “fake news” you’ve probably noticed that a strange tweeting
orange ogre has moved into the White House. Yes, it’s the end of the
world. One of the ogre’s first outrages was to appoint like-minded ogres
to allegedly important government posts. Imagine that!

Of great concern to “so-called” environmentalists is the ogre appointed
to behead the [EPA](https://www.epa.gov/). This cruel EPA slayer is not
drinking the Earth first Kool-Aid and appears determined to end the
cushy pensioned sinecures of all the left-thinking, environment
protecting, comrades. Like I said before, it’s the end of the world.
Apparently, after a few, and I mean a very few, underperforming EPA
comrades are purged this critical government agency will become deaf,
dumb and blind.[^5375b] All that wonderful EPA air and water quality data
will no longer be collected. Only large infusions of newly created and
freshly taxed money can prevent this apocalypse.

For Christ sakes, cry me an orange river!

If you really care about the environment get off your fat corn syrup
enlarged ass and collect your own data with drones. I’ve listened to
*cis-lefties* insist they are smarter, fitter and better looking than
their evil *cis-righty* counterparts for years. Well, here’s an
opportunity to prove it. Instead of marching for science why don’t you
modify or build drones that can actually do science.

One of my favorite scenes in the movie [*Erin
Brockovich*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erin_Brockovich_(film)) shows
our spunky girl-power heroine played by Julia Roberts[^5375c] sneaking
onto the grounds of a power plant to clandestinely sample waste water
ponds. She was caught and shooed away but not before she snagged water
samples that contained Hexavalent Chromium: the same, *unnaturally
occurring*, compound that also turned up in the drinking water of people
living near the plant. What a coincidence? Erin may have been a spunky
go getter but chemistry was the real hero.

Erin was taking a real risk sneaking onto “private property.” In many
parts of the world, she would have been shot and dumped into the
wastewater ponds. How many of us would take such a risk? If only there
was a way to reduce the risks of clandestine sampling. If only there was
a small, hard to detect, quiet, remote-controlled device that could fly
into “forbidden zones”, sample areas of interest, and then fly out with
physical evidence.

It wouldn’t be all that difficult to modify existing drones to do this.
It would make a great science fair project. Think of how much better
things would be if pinheaded SJWs stopped [enumerating new imaginary
genders](http://ageofshitlords.com/complete-list-of-all-tumblr-sexualities-so-far)
and devoted their time and energy to mastering the technology required
to build and operate sampling drones. Instead of being an embarrassing
stain on humanity they might actually do some good.

Finally, combine clandestine drone sampling with [blockchain based
unbannable binary file distribution](https://lbry.io/learn) and it’s
possible to create the type of “transparency” political buttheads are
always blathering about but never actually provide.

[^5375a]: The advent of drones highlights the utter stupidity of Trump’s
    border wall. How high will the wall have to be to stop drones from
    flying over it? How many anti-drone-drones will need to be stationed
    along the wall to secure the border?

[^5375b]: Considering that the EPA is already deaf and dumb how bad can
    blind be?

[^5375c]: I admit it; I’ve seen too many Julia Roberts movies. Like many
    mainly manly men, I have a thing for nice smiles and boobs and no
    amount of feminist nagging will change that.
