[Where’s the Olympic
beach?](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2012/08/09/wheres-the-olympic-beach/)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 09 Aug 2012 19:16:54*

Readers of this blog know that I [do not approve of the
Olympics](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2009/10/03/my-olympic-spirit/).
What started out as an eccentric bit of 19^th^ century [classics
nostalgia](http://history1800s.about.com/od/sports/a/Coubertin.htm) has
morphed into the expensive, corrupt, drug fueled, real-estate orgy we
endure today. Whatever athletic ideals the Olympic movement espoused
died on national and corporate altars decades ago. By the time the first
national anthem sounds the real gold has long since traded hands. It’s
disappeared into offshore accounts, kick-back schemes, hidden payoffs
and good old-fashioned high roller whoring. Despite the waste, drugs and
corruption the public still bends over and begs flaccid
[IOC](http://observer.com/2012/07/those-dirty-rings-corruption-prone-ioc-always-goes-for-the-gold/)
sodomites for more because *only the Olympics decides pressing issues
like who can best tumble on a mat and [catch a
ribbon!](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/elaine-dai/post_3740_b_1746836.html)*
What’s wrong with you people?

My normal Olympic reflex is to head for the hills and ignore the damn
circus. In 2008 I was deep in cell phone blocking redwood forests so I
didn’t hear a peep about the Olympics. This year I’m not so lucky. Work
and family obligations have kept me firmly locked in the Olympic vise.
On my own I would change channels or read but I’m not on my own. My wife
enjoys the games and her elderly demented mother enjoys them even more.

*Dementia and the Olympics are perfect for each other!* Last night while
watching women’s beach volleyball my mother in-law complained about the
game’s chief virtue: bikinis on tight female bodies. She wanted to know
why these women were so shamefully dressed. My wife calmly explained
that they were playing a game that’s normally played on the beach.
“Where is the beach?” my mother in-law retorted. Indeed, where is the
beach? It’s a perfect metaphor for the billions flushed down the Olympic
sewer: connected cronies get rich, the proles ogle some fine ass and the
taxpayer doesn’t even get a real beach to pound sand on! Again, what’s
wrong with you people?
