 
[Why Code when you can Steal](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/01/28/why-code-when-you-can-steal/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 28 Jan 2010 15:33:30*

I am learning C\#.

Two years ago I swore a blood oath not to learn anymore programming
languages. It’s been obvious for decades that you seldom find any *new
and important ideas* in programming languages. What you typically find
are old ideas renamed and wrapped in a new syntax. Virtually all [key
concepts](http://www.cse.lehigh.edu/~gtan/historyOfFP/historyOfFP.html)
in programming are [over twenty
years](http://www.exforsys.com/tutorials/oops/the-history-of-object-oriented-programming.html)
old and [many are far
older.](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/TuringMachine.html) My disgust with
new languages started with a single word:
[refactoring!](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WhatIsRefactoring)

When I met refactoring it seduced me with its sleek geeky’ness. What
could this wonderful word mean and what thrilling concept did it clothe?
Well it basically means cleaning up your abhorrent code so that you can
make some freaking sense of it! All competent programmers, dating back
to [Ada Lovelace](http://www.sdsc.edu/ScienceWomen/lovelace.html)
(1815-1852), have been refactoring all their goddamn coding lives.
*Refactoring is geek marketing: the same old shit in a glistening new
package.*

C\# is as free of new concepts as I expected but the language has its
strengths. C\# has managed to inherit most of its predecessors gifts
without introducing untested features. C\#’s designers restrained
themselves and it shows. The language is clean, easy to learn, and
integrates elegantly with .Net libraries.

This is all good but what makes it better is that you can steal tons of
C\# code. Google and Bing are my accomplices. When I want to find out
what a
[DataSet](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.data.dataset.aspx)
does I just pop a query and dredge up nuggets like: [Creating A Data Set
From Scratch in
C\#.](http://rhondatipton.net/2008/01/12/creating-a-data-set-from-scratch-in-c/)
In the old days you had to read dense language documents like the [J
Dictionary](http://www.jsoftware.com/help/dictionary/title.htm) and
think for yourself.

Thinking for yourself is so 20th century; why code when you can steal!
