[Why I Still Use my Ten Year Old Garmin
GPS](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2010/04/22/why-i-still-use-my-ten-year-old-garmin-gps/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 22 Apr 2010 19:17:57*

Last year I joined the swelling ranks of Smartphone users. My device
belongs to the *[BlackBerry](http://www.blackberry.com/)* or BB clan.
There are many things I like about the BB but my favorite feature is
simply that my employer picks up the tab. Every month I get a corporate
*guilt report* listing my BB charges and every month I tell myself there
is no freaking way I would pay such bills with my own money. If I had to
pay for the BB I would gladly toss it aside and revert to my normal
uncommunicative self. I don’t need to be constantly in touch and frankly
people who do are [sick puppies](http://www.sickpuppies.net/) that
should be put down.

My favorite Smartphone apps are GPS driven online maps. I’ve always been
a map freak. When I was child I taped [National
Geographic](http://www.nationalgeographic.com/) maps on my bedroom
walls. In college, when my drug soaked classmates were decorating with
rock band posters, I was framing maps of the [mid-Atlantic
ridge](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mid-Atlantic\_Ridge) and the *real*
[dark side of the
Moon](http://www.wired.com/wiredscience/2007/11/the-most-beauti/). Even
now, given a choice between [lame
art](http://brlogsbane.wordpress.com/2008/04/29/why-all-the-lame-art/)
or antique maps, I prefer maps. Online maps and applications like
[Google Earth](http://earth.google.com/index.html) represent all that is
good about civilization.

**The same cannot be said for phone companies!**

The BB has a built-in GPS receiver. When I first learned of this my
heart was all-a-twitter. No longer would I have to carry around my
ancient [Garmin
Etrex](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00003WGP5?tag=helubuy-20). Don’t get me
wrong I love my Etrex, My Etrex is a simple rock solid device that
*functions as designed.* It has served me for a decade without
complaints, upgrades or failures. It has never let me down! How many
ten-year old computers are you still running? Much as I love my Etrex
it’s not what the cool kids are GPS’ing with these days. I was looking
forward to putting Etrex out to stud — winning race horses have the best
vertebrate retirement plans — and getting with the Smartphone program.

Then I learned that most Smartphones cannot function as *standalone* GPS
units. To receive public GPS signals on a
[Verizon](http://www.verizonwireless.com/b2c/index.html) BB you need to
be connected to the cell phone network and your application must be
blessed by Verizon. What the fuck? Are you shitting me? Do you mean to
tell me I have to pay a phone bill to access free GPS signals that I can
still receive *– for free –* on my ten-year old Etrex. This heinous and
vile rip-off ignites a firestorm of rage in my heart. Water-boarding is
to humane for Verizon executives!

I will not be retiring my Etrex until all GPS enabled Smartphones can
pick up, display and record GPS positions without being connected to
phone networks.
