
[Woke Wildfires](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2020/09/19/woke-wildfires/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 19 Sep 2020 22:44:08*

For the last two weeks we've been inhaling woke, California, Oregon, and
Washington, wildfire smoke. Fire season, yeah it's a season, is an
annual "thing" in the Pacific Northwest. Every summer and fall fires
break out and ruin air quality for weeks on end. As ["nearly 85 percent
of wildland fires in the United States are caused by
humans"](https://www.nps.gov/articles/wildfire-causes-and-evaluation.htm)
I was hoping that the Wuhan Coronavirus lockdowns would reduce the
number of fires this year. *Fewer morons in the woods mean fewer fires.*
Summer started off fire-free but when the lockdowns ended they returned
with a vengeance. Naked apes are proven [accidental arsonists and
sometimes intentional
arsonists](https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/security/wildfires-rage-false-antifa-rumors-spur-pleas-police-n1239881).
Just like Batman's Joker a lot of dumb shits [just want to watch things
burn](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efHCdKb5UWc).

Speaking of dumb shits, the governors of Wokeland West, California,
Oregon, and Washington assure us that Climate Change is the real
wildfire villain. It has nothing to do with fire starting idiots, insane
[building codes that do not require
firebreaks](https://www.quora.com/Why-are-fire-breaks-not-established-in-California?share=1),
the lack of public fire safety education, [incompetent electric
utilities](https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/23/us/pge-guilty-camp-fire-california/index.html),
forest management policies [that needlessly restrict controlled
burns](https://www.motherjones.com/environment/2019/11/californias-wildfire-controlled-prescribed-burns-native-americans/),
or a refusal to punish arsonists. It's Climate Change all the way down!

Like most woke [word
salads](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/word-salad) this is
questionable nonsense. The [National Interagency Fire Center
(NIFC)](https://www.nifc.gov/index.html), a dull government agency
located right here in Southern Idaho, has been collecting wildfire burn
statistics since the 1920s. Here's a table of [wildfire counts and acres
burned since
1926](https://www.nifc.gov/fireInfo/fireInfo_stats_totalFires.html).[^7007x1]
When you [plot this
data](https://github.com/bakerjd99/jacks/blob/master/notebooks/wildfire%20plot.ipynb)
you get the following linked image.

[Image link: Wildfire Counts and Acres (1926-2019)](https://bakerjd99.files.wordpress.com/2020/09/wildfires1926-2019.png)

Oddly, more fires were burning more acres in the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s
than today. Even with NIFC's caveat that data collected before 1983
"were not derived from the current situation reporting process" and
"should not be compared to later data" you're left wondering if Climate
Change is being framed while the real killer is still at large.

Dodging responsibility by blaming something completely out of your
control is a standard political gimmick.

"Hey man, this shit isn't on me!", said every whining weasel ever.

For the sake of argument, assume we can *instantly fix* Climate Change.
Let's wave our magical woke-wand and make all the bad emissions go away.
Here's a little question.

> *If greenhouse gas emissions are suddenly reduced to zero, how long
> will it take to lower west coast wildfire frequency?*

Want a clue? It may take decades to notice changes! If wildfires have to
wait for west coast *wokerati* to fix Climate Change we're going to be
inhaling smoke for the rest of my life. I better order those extra
indoor air filters before the hoarders catch on.

[^7007x1]: I've downloaded and [archived this
    table](https://github.com/bakerjd99/jacks/blob/master/notebooks/NationalFireData.txt).
    I've observed that data has a tendency to disappear from public view
    when it's caught contradicting ["the
    narrative."](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=pushing%20a%20false%20narrative)
