

[Yellowstone
and Me](http://bakerjd99.wordpress.com/2013/08/24/yellowstone-and-me/)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 24 Aug 2013 06:32:35*

I have moved so often that I am no longer from anywhere, but if asked,
one place, [Livingston Montana](http://www.livingstonmontana.org/), has
the strongest claim. Every summer, from infancy to late adolescence, I
spent long happy months with my grandparents in Livingston. If you look
at a map you’ll see that Livingston is close to [Yellowstone National
Park](http://www.nps.gov/yell/index.htm). In the late 19^th^ and early
20^th^ century the town billed itself as the gateway to Yellowstone. In
those days most people reached the park by train and the train went
through Livingston on the way to Gardner and the northern park entrance
where the famous Teddy Roosevelt arch stands to this day.

Being close to Yellowstone we made frequent family trips to the park. I
don’t know how many times I’ve entered Yellowstone. We’d make at least
one trip every year and some years we went two or three times. We
thought of Yellowstone as our own private national park and we were
intensely proud of the place. This hasn’t changed. People that live near
the park today are as fiercely devoted to Yellowstone as my grandparents
and parents ever were.

When I was a child the park service did things differently. In the
1950’s and 1960’s rangers didn’t chase bears into the woods so they hung
out on park roads begging food from tourists. Seeing bears closeup was
always a thrill. Of course you weren’t supposed to feed bears. Signs
were everywhere reminding [*Boobus
americanus*](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Boobus%20Americanus)
that bears were dangerous wild animals, but the largely ignorant public
ignored the warnings with predictable results. Every year at least one
moron was killed by a bear. In good years two or three would succumb.
Since most of the dead were clueless tourists locals viewed Yellowstone
bear attacks as a form of imbecile euthanasia. We were sad when rangers
had to put down offending bears. You don’t see a lot of bears in the
park these days. When they show up the rangers shoo them into the woods;
it’s easier to train bears than tourists.

After bears geysers were the next biggest thrill. Yellowstone is
world-famous for its geysers. Some estimate that half of the worlds
active geysers are bubbling away atop Yellowstone’s massive caldera. The
immense size and power of the Yellowstone super-volcano was not fully
understood in those days but you could see the park was a special,
almost magical, place with your own eyes. One geyser, [Old
Faithful](http://www.nps.gov/yell/planyourvisit/noldfaith.htm), is
emblematic of Yellowstone and most of our park trips included a stop at
it.

Old Faithful is not the most spectacular large geyser in the park but
it’s the most dependable. By some rare geological quirk Old Faithful has
been venting at regular intervals ever since it was named in 1870.[^4186a]
The interval changes a bit from time to time. The [Madison
earthquake](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1959\_Yellowstone\_earthquake)
tweaked the frequency and times vary more than many believe, but if you
go to Old Faithful and invest a few hours the geyser will not
disappoint. The most dramatic eruptions occur during the winter when
super-heated geyser steam blasts into freezing mountain plateau air. Old
Faithful in the winter is pure bucket list material. I’ve watched Old
Faithful shoot off dozens of times. I’ve seen Old Faithful with my
parents, my siblings, my grandparents, my children, my nieces, in-laws
and some good friends. My experience is not unique. If you’ve seen Old
Faithful I’m betting it was with someone special.

There’s more to Yellowstone than bears and geysers. It harbors the
largest high altitude lake in North America. It is home to a variety of
North American plants and animals. It has one of the most spectacular
river canyons and waterfalls anywhere and it shelters, in scalding
geyser waters, rare ancient
[extremophiles](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extremophile) that are
among the oldest life forms on Earth. The park doesn’t need me to sell
it. It’s one of the world’s very special places.

As I entered my teenage years we moved to Iran where I spent a year
before moving to Lebanon for school. During this time I saw large chunks
of the Middle East, Egypt, Turkey, most of Western Europe and England.
We returned to Canada. From Canada I moved to Ghana, then Denmark, then
Barbados, then western Canada, then eastern Canada, then back to the US.
I’ve seen dozens of national parks in many countries and many are
spectacular. With so much to compare it against I started thinking of
Yellowstone as, “a been there, done that”, “nothing to see here”, “not
worth the hassle,” bore! Doesn’t everyone have a boring old Yellowstone
in their backyard? I was blasé about Yellowstone for years until two
notable events and advances in geology made me reassess my feelings
about the park.

Remember the great Yellowstone [forest fires of
1988](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yellowstone\_fires\_of\_1988).
Dramatic images of vast fires filled newscasts for weeks. The park
service endured abuse from all quarters for letting the fires rage. Fire
has always been important for North American evergreen forests. Years of
fire suppression in the US and Canada slowly produced dense tinderbox
forests that blaze when set alight. The great Yellowstone fires of 1988
punctuated this point. We now understand that fire is necessary for the
long-term health of forests, but explaining this to outfitters, tour
operators and other businesses that depend on moving tourists in and out
of parks remains a hard sell. A few years after the great 1988 fires I
visited the park with my young children. I was expecting a burned out
wasteland but I was surprised by verdant undergrowth and the largest
fattest elk herds I had ever seen. Between the black timbers lush ferns
and other plants burst forth by the billions. It was a good time for
ungulates. I know it pisses people off when experts are right but the
experts were right about forest fires. Fortunately the braying nitwits
soon had something even more controversial to whine about.

The most famous animal in the park these days was absent during my
youth. I am talking about wolves. Wolves had been exterminated in
Yellowstone for the usual fallacious bullshit reasons in the early
20^th^ century. When people started seriously entertaining the idea of
reintroducing wolves to the park every brain-dead rancher in the west
decided to go on TV and show the world that westerners are every bit as
ignorant as Yellowstone bear-food tourists. I remember one particularly
eye-rolling twit going on about how kids waiting for school buses at
lonely winter ranch gates would fall prey to bloodthirsty wolves. It
didn’t matter that there have been very few *authenticated* wolf attacks
on people or that there were good ecological reasons for reintroducing
wolves. Ranchers the world over subscribe to what I call rancher
ecology. *If it’s not a cow or a rancher shoot it!* I’ve endured this
sentiment in the US, Canada, Brazil and Ghana. Grow up people; you’re
embarrassing us! If you’re really this stupid having bloodthirsty wolves
pick off your idiot spawn would help us maintain our species IQ.

The park service ignored the loons and brought the wolves back. What
happened, just the biggest and most successful species reintroduction in
national park history? Watching wolves reestablish themselves has made
it crystal clear how important top predators are to functional
ecosystems. Before the wolves came back the elk and deer, like welfare
recipients, had gotten stupid and lazy. Their biggest problem was
avoiding traffic. The wolves changed all that. Now if they’re not on
their hooves they’re probably going to get eaten. The presence of wolves
has had many unexpected benefits. The elk no longer clear out the
underbrush near streams; this has led to a profusion of wild flowers and
other plants that were rarely seen before wolves. The denser plant
growth has provided habit for insects that feed birds. The slower moving
waters are more suitable for native fish and beavers. The park is in
better shape than it has been at any time in my life and we can credit
the work of *Canis lupus* for a lot of it.

And, despite the western whining, the biggest beneficiaries of wolf
reintroduction have been, you guessed it: *Homo sapiens.* Lots of people
are making money on Yellowstone wolves. Every winter thousands of people
make their way into the Lamar valley to watch and hear wolves. People
come from far and wide and occasionally the wolves put on a riveting
show for them. Yes they occasionally stray from the park and there have
been livestock losses. Whenever a sheep of calf gets eaten the rancher
press covers it like a mini 9/11 terrorist attack. In some cases the
attacks *occur in the park*. It’s not widely known that domestic animals
graze national forests and parks. Hey, if your cow is eating state
subsidized grass stop whining about occasional losses to wildlife.
You’re damn lucky the stupid public tolerates grazing on public lands.
In pure economic terms wolf introduction has been a rare government
money-maker. Perhaps if [*Congress
assholus*](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=congress) were
reintroduced to their natural habit, *prison*, similar benefits would
ensue.

Wolf reintroduction put Yellowstone back in the news but advances in
geophysics and geology vaulted the park’s status to global icon. There
aren’t very many [super volcanoes in the
world](http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How\_many\_super\_volcanoes\_are\_there\_all\_together\_in\_the\_world)
and there are even fewer active super-volcanoes. This is probably a good
thing. Too many of these puppies blowing off would seriously depress the
market and no amount of quantitative easing would excavate your baked
ass from cubic kilometers of volcanic ash. Geologists have been aware of
Yellowstone’s violent volcanic past for decades but it wasn’t until the
age of high precision GPS monitoring and satellite radar that the
alarming dynamism of the park made headlines. We’re not used to
landscapes “breathing” but something like that is going on in the
Yellowstone caldera. The entire plateau goes up and down in amazingly
short times. It takes a lot of energy to move a few hundred square
kilometers of rock in a matter of years. Yellowstone ground movements
have been monitored since the 1920’s and they are so marked that even
the public notices. Now that we better understand [the monster that
lurks under the
park](http://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/2009/08/yellowstone/yellowstone-interactive)
everyone expects it to wake one day and blow the joint sky-high. Maybe
we’ll get lucky and see it blow in our lifetime. The last time the
Yellowstone super-volcano erupted *Homo erectus* walked the Earth. They
we’re on the other side of the world but super-volcanoes make themselves
felt at great distances. I’m willing to bet that evidence of large
Yellowstone eruptions will eventually be detected in ancient African or
Asian hominid fossils. Yellowstone’s super-volcano gives the park real
sex appeal. Let’s face it, chicks dig bad boys, and bad boys that can
waste entire countries are volcanically hot!

Yellowstone’s enduring importance has nothing to do with landscapes,
geysers, bears or volcanoes. Its major contribution is the *idea of a
national park.* In 1872 the US Congress took time out from their usual
whoring and profiteering, work they assiduously pursue to this day, and
accidentally did something worthwhile; they created the world’s first
national park: Yellowstone. Despite modern whitewashing this wasn’t an
act of a farsighted and wise people. Yellowstone was too far away, too
high for agriculture, had no known mineral deposits and wasn’t even in a
state at the time. How the hell can you deliver pork to nonexistent
districts? Congress couldn’t see how to pillage and profit from
Yellowstone so they gave in to a small but determined movement that
wanted a park. The congress of 1872 was probably less corrupt and venal
than our modern degenerates but they weren’t freaking saints and it
annoys the hell out of me that partisan revisionists are constantly
citing Yellowstone as a wonder of big government. Yellowstone was a
product of the corrupt and incompetent Grant[^4186b] administration for
Christ’s sake. The same dolts that brought you Custer’s last stand.

Judging the motivations of the long dead is pure hubris but evaluating
the results of their actions is how we learn from history. By any
standard Yellowstone was a glorious result. The congress of 1872 set a
precedent that spread worldwide. [Ken
Burns](http://www.pbs.org/nationalparks/) argues that national parks are
the single best idea the US government has ever had and I agree. *I
shudder to think what Yellowstone would be like if it wasn’t a national
park.* It would probably be the biggest hive of luxury spas and
posturing celebrity scum on the planet. Imagine Aspen, Cannes, Bath,
Monte Carlo, Dubai and Hollywood all whored up with natural boiling mud
and geyser waters. Instead of being proud of Yellowstone I would be
advocating nuking the place. The nukes wouldn’t damage the super-volcano
but they would cauterize the celebrity infestation. Thank the [all
squiggling FSM](http://www.venganza.org/) that this nightmare was
aborted in 1872. National parks have aborted many such nightmares all
around the globe.

In my ideal world parks would cover at least a third of Earth’s lands
and oceans. We’re not there yet, but when we are, people will still look
at Yellowstone, the world’s first national park, and my personal
favorite, as one of the very best.

[^4186a]: Nobody knows who first discovered Old Faithful. It was known to
    Native Americans long before it was named “Old Faithful.”

[^4186b]: Unlike the current occupant of the White House Grant did something
    that mattered before he was elected president.
