
[Yet Another New Year](http://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2022/01/06/yet-another-new-year/)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Posted: 06 Jan 2022 16:54:39*

Well, I survived 2021, another crappy COVID year. Three cheers for me.

2021 was marked by four deaths. The first off was my dad. [He died in
February](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2021/02/21/my-fathers-obituary/)
of "general geriatric decline" (old age) and I have been dealing with
his estate ever since. It's mostly settled with a few irritating
exceptions. Just try closing a joint saving account in another country
when both account holders are deceased. The frigging *Royal Bank of
Canada*, yeah, I am naming names, has been trying to paper-work me to
death but they're tangling with the wrong cowboy. It's now personal, I
will keep at this, even though it's a small amount of money, just to
piss them off.

A few months after dad's death my aunt Alberta Drake died. I wasn't
particularly close to Alberta, but it annoyed me that I learned of her
death second-hand. Later I learned, by inspecting her husband Bill's
grave in Livingston Montana, that my cousins did not bury Alberta beside
him. It's dead obvious, forgive the pun, that she wanted to be with
Bill. I would crawl over [BLM
riot](https://townhall.com/tipsheet/katiepavlich/2020/09/08/new-study-shows-majority-of-blm-protests-turned-violent-n2575801)
debris to honor my mother's wishes, but apparently, others feel
differently.

[Image link: Alberta Drake](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/From-Hazels-Albums-1/i-zNgjGnk/A)

[Roger Hui](https://rogerhui.rip/) was the next to go. Roger was a
gifted programmer and a cocreator with [Ken
Iverson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_E._Iverson) of the [J
programming language](https://www.jsoftware.com/#/). I knew and worked
with Roger. He was my age, to the year, and, like me, a graduate of the
University of Alberta. I first heard of Roger when interviewing for a
job at I. P. Sharp Associates in Edmonton in the early 1980's. My
soon-to-be boss said Roger was the best coder he had ever met. He was
certainly among the best I've ever met. I use J almost every day, so
it's fair to say that Roger has impacted my thinking more than most
people on this planet. Roger died of cancer. I didn't know he was ill,
and his death bugged me more than I would have expected. Rest in peace
Roger.

[Image link: Roger Hui](https://bakerjd99.files.wordpress.com/2022/01/roger_hui_1996.jpg)

The last to go was my ex-brother-in-law, Ian Dubin. Ian is the older
brother of my first wife Ruth Dubin. I met Ian in 1978. He came to
Barbados to attend our wedding. I liked him right from the start. Ian
was generous, smart, fun, and an all-around great guy, but he had a
nasty side. Like his father, he was an alcoholic. For many years the
drinking was just fun. God knows I didn't do anything to slow him down,
and looking back, my most memorable drunk ever was partly Ian's doing.
When Ian's father died, he flew in from Hong Kong with a huge bottle of
Cognac. We met him at the Toronto airport and went to our hotel where we
drank until I was nearly comatose. The next day I puked up in the hearse
on the way to his dad's burial. Talk about making an impression on the
relatives! After the funeral, I learned that Ian, who drank far more
than me, didn't puke up anything and was largely functional. Drinking is
like everything; you get better with practice. As the years rolled on
the drinking slowly ruined and then claimed Ian's life. My last
interaction with Ian was another dispute about UFOs. He was a firm
believer in alien UFOs, predynastic Egyptian civilizations, and other
crank notions. You couldn't argue with him about his nutty beliefs
without angering him. Near the end, I just ignored certain topics. It's
always astonished me that intelligent well-educated people can believe
utter nonsense. Ian's UFO obsession was like [Conan Doyle's belief in
fairies](https://brewminate.com/sir-arthur-conan-doyle-and-the-cottingly-fairies-hoax-of-1917-1921/):
completely ridiculous to hard-ass skeptics like me. We'll miss you,
Ian. Thanks for many great times.

[Image link: Ian Dubin](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/People/Inlaws-Outlaws-and-Friends/i-4bqMBNB/A)

Aside from seeing off more people than usual in 2021, I also beavered
away on my little projects. I was foolish enough to publicly declare my
plans so let's go through my 2021 to-do list and eat some crow.

1.  Update [JOD](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/the-jod-page/)
    to handle J's new direct definitions. **Finished**.

2.  Print this blog as an ISBN'ed book. **I didn't even start this
    task.**

3.  Write at least 50 blog posts. **Big miss!**

4.  Upload at least 250 well-captioned images to my
    [SmugMug](https://conceptcontrol.smugmug.com/) picture site. I
    didn't hit 250, but I came close enough. **Finished.**

5.  Learn more about the RUST programming language and write some RUST
    binaries that can be called from J or Python. I did learn more about
    RUST but so far, no callable binaries. **Miss.**

6.  Read at least twenty books. **Finished.**

7.  Work through at least three *math-intense* books. I read three
    math-intense books. I'm going to give myself this one. **Finished**.

8.  Make another pass at learning and using [proof assistants like
    LEAN](https://leanprover-community.github.io/). I have set up LEAN
    on a macOS machine and started using it. I still have much to learn,
    but I'm making steady progress. **Finished.**

I managed five out of eight tasks: not particularly good or bad - C
student stuff. I also achieved the last *implied* item on my list: *stay
alive*. In my next post, I will lay out my plans for 2022. Restrain
yourselves!
